Unidentified Female: I'm getting ready for a lot of things, a lot of things.Unidentified Female: It's spring, so we're starting to get the gardens ready and my tomatoes are legendary here in my own neighborhood.Unidentified Female: My daughter is about to start kindergarten next year. And so we're moving, just so she can belong to a better school.Unidentified Male: [speaking in Spanish translated as "My brother and I are starting our first business."]Unidentified Female: After five years of raising my children, I am now going back to work.Unidentified Female: Every day, we're trying to get more and more money and more prepared.Unidentified Male: A baby boy coming your way.Unidentified Female: Right now, I'm applying for jobs.Unidentified Female: It's a look into what the real world will look like after college.Unidentified Male: I'm getting married this summer to someone I really care about.Unidentified Child: I'm going to be in a play and I'm going to be in a fish costume. (INAUDIBLE) fishes.Unidentified Female: I'm getting ready to retire soon. Retirement means reinventing yourself in many ways.Unidentified Female: Well, we've been doing a lot of home renovations.Unidentified Male: But most importantly, we really just want to teach our dog to quit eating the trash.Unidentified Female: And we have high hopes for 2015, that that's going to happen.Unidentified Male: I've started a new career recently. This is a fifth generation company which means a -- a lot to me. This country was founded on hard work and it really feels good to be a part of that.Clinton: I'm getting ready to do something, too. I'm running for president. Americans have fought their way back from tough economic times, but the deck is still stacked in favor of those at the top.Everyday Americans need a champion and I want to be that champion. So you can do more than just get by, you can get ahead and stay ahead, because when families are strong, America is strong.So I'm hitting the road to earn your vote, because it's your time and I hope you'll join me on this journey.
[joined in progress][unknown student speaker]: I'll be graduating in May, and on graduation I'll be heading to Annapolis, the naval academy, to major in systems engineering.Clinton: All right, good luck.Ellen Charmin, Student: My name is Ellen Charmin (ph). I'm a junior at Monticello High School. I started taking Kirkwood classes my sophomore year. I began taking an online class. I'm currently in the arts and sciences academy. And by the time that I graduate, I'll have 48 credit hours done. Clinton: Really?Charmin: Yeah.Clinton:Year and a half. Wow. That's great!Charmin: Yep.Clinton: OK.Diane Temple, Student: I'm Diane Temple. I'm an away girl at heart. For the last 21 years I've been a high school as an English teacher. I spent six years here part time as an adjunct composition instructor.Clinton: Great.Mason McLaughlin, Student: I'm Jason McLaughlin. I'm a 7th through 12th grade principal at Central City High School. We're one of the eight partner schools that partner with the facility to send kids of all grades for opportunities. We're happy to have you here. Welcome to Monticello.Clinton: Thanks. Thank you.I'll introduce...[crosstalk]Clinton: That's good. That's a good luck omen. [laughter]McLaughlin: Yeah.Drew Mullin, Student: I'm Drew Mullin. I'm a junior at central city. I'm currently taking auto tech and biotech programs here. I've had a great time. It gives a taste of the college experience. I plan to go on and do something with engineering after I get out of high school.Clinton: Great. Good. Thanks.Bethany Moore, Student: I'm Bethany Moore. I'm what they call a non-traditional college student. I'm taking business administration management, and I also am doing the continuing ed program here at Kirkwood.Clinton: Great.Well, first I want thank you, Nick, for having me here and a few of my friends in the college. I just had a terrific tour of the advanced manufacturing laboratory. I got to talk with the instructor and four of the students, all of whom are high school students who are doing what you have described as the great opportunity to mix your high school years with college learning and college credits as you move forward.And I am really pleased to be at a community college that is visionary and effective and trying to serve as a bridge for people who are non-traditional but coming back to add to their stills all the Beltway high school students who are taking advantage of the opportunities. And the cooperation between the college and the high school is something I want to see a lot more. This is a real model for how we can provide more continuous learning starting in high school but going as far as necessary to help better prepare not only young people but all people for the economy that is awaiting us.And before we get started — because I want to hear from each of you, I want more information about what you see as challenges as students and educators and the opportunities you hope to take advantage of — I just want to tell you a little bit about why I'm here today. I think we all know that Americans have come back from some tough economic times. And our economy and our country are much better off because American families have basically done whatever it took to make it work. But I think it's fair to say that as you look across the country, the deck is still stacked in favor of those already at the top. And there's something wrong with that. There's something wrong when CEOs make 300 times more than the typical worker. There's something wrong when American workers keep getting more productive, as they have, and as I just saw a few minutes ago, is very possibly possible because of education and stills training, but that productivity is not matched in their paychecks. And there's something wrong when hedge fund managers pay lower tax rates than nurses or the truckers that I saw on I-80 as I was driving here the last two days. And there's something wrong when students and their families have to go deeply into debt to be able to get the education and skills in order to make the best of their own lives. I looked at the figures. The average Iowa graduate from a four-year college comes out with nearly $30,000 in debt. And that's I think the ninth-highest debt load in the country. And people are struggling. I met earlier today with a young student who is piecing together work and loans, knowing full well he's going to come out owing a lot of money.We're got to figure out in our country how to get back on the right track. And I'm running for president because I think that Americans and their families need a champion, and I want to be this champion. I want to stand up and fight for people so that they cannot just get by, but they get ahead and they can stay ahead. And a lot of people in the last few days have asking why do you want to do this? What motivates you? I thought a lot about it and I guess the short answer is I've been fighting for children and families my entire adult life, probably because of my mother's example. She had a really difficult childhood, was mistreated, neglected, but she never gave up. She had to basically be on her own at the time she was 14 but she just kept going. My father, who was a small business man, believed you had to work hard to make your way and do what you had to do to be successful, and provided a good living for our family. And then I was thinking, too, about the lessons from my church. You're supposed to give back. You're supposed to do what you can to help others. And that's what I tried to do. And we'll have more time to talk about as that as we go forward.When I got out of law school, I worked for the Children's Defense Fund. One of the projects there was literally going door to door. This was back in the '70s when kids with disabilities were basically shut out of our schools. And thanks to your great former Senator, Tom Harkin, that's no longer the case. But I was knocking on doors asking is there anybody school age not in school, and finding blind kids and deaf kids and kids in wheel chairs who were just left out. And I was able in Arkansas to work to try to improve education there and give more kids chances who really deserved them. And as first lady, to fight for health care reform and keep fighting until we get health care insurance for kids. Then as Senator, dealing with the problems that faced New York after 9/11 and trying to help people get what they needed, the victims' families and first responders. It was an incredible honor to do that. Then, as secretary of state, standing up for our country.So when I look at where we are as a country, I'm so absolutely convinced that there isn't anybody anywhere who can outcompete us, who has better values, who can do more to provide more people the chance to live up to their own God-given potential. But we can't take that for granted. So I want to be the champion who goes to bat for Americans in four big areas, four big fights that I think we have to take on, because there are those who don't agree with what I think we should be doing. And they're pretty powerful forces.We need to build the economy of tomorrow, not yesterday. We need to strengthen families and communities because that's where it all starts. We need to fix our dysfunctional political system and get unaccountable money out of it once and for all, even if that takes a constitutional amendment, and we need to protect our country from the threats that we see and the ones that are on the horizon.So I'm here in Iowa to begin a conversation about how we do that and to hear from people about what's on your minds, what the challenges that you see are. And I'll work hard to meet as many people. I'll be rolling out ideas and policies about what I think will work. But I want it to be informed by what's actually working and to build on what works going forward, and to stand up for those who have a different vision of our country, a different one than what I grew up with and a different one than I think is best for everybody.So with that what I'd love to do is just, you know, ask a few questions and hear...[end of transcript]
Clinton: Well, thank you all so much for inviting me here today and giving me a chance to not only learn more about this business, which is a family business, 112 years young.Unknown: That's right.Clinton: And to meet some of the people who work here, as I did when I was walking through, and as you've just introduced yourself. I am excited to hear from you about what it takes to get a small business up and going and keep it growing in an increasingly competitive global economy. Small business is the backbone of the American economy. Here in New Hampshire, 96 percent of all businesses are considered small businesses. And they employ more than half of the workers, the employees, in the state of New Hampshire. So New Hampshire is a perfect example of what it takes to start and grow a small business.And I come from a small business family. My father had a very small business. He printed drapery fabrics in a print plant. And he did much of the work himself, sometimes with day laborers, sometimes with my mother and my brothers and me, literally, taking the squeegee, pour the paint on the silk screen. You take the squeegee, you go down, then you lift it up and you go to the next and you keep going.And I saw where now there's a machine that you just bought that's printing on all kinds of material. And I'm thinking back to those years in my father's small print plant. But he made a very good living because of his hard work and his absolute willingness to do whatever it took to design, to produce, to sell the products that were at the heart of what he produced.And so from my perspective, I want to be sure that we get small businesses starting and growing in America again. We have stalled out. I was very surprised to see that when I began to dig into it, because people were telling me this, as I traveled around the country the last two years, but I didn't know what they were saying.And it turns out that we're not producing as many small businesses as we used to. And a recent world study said that we are 46th in the world in the difficulty to start a small business. There are lots of issues and we'll get into some of those, I hope, Dave, and the rest of you, as well.So I want to hear from each of you, because part of what I'm doing in this campaign is making my own decisions about what we need to do. I want to embed what I propose as policies, not in ideology, not in some philosophy, but in the real daily lives and experiences of American workers and business owners and everybody who had a stake in making sure that the economy is working again. Really, we have to do more for young people, because what we're finding is that with student debt — and New Hampshire has the highest student debt numbers of any state in the country — that interferes with the young people taking certain jobs, buying a house, even getting married and certainly starting a business.When I was in Iowa last week, I met a young man, who — his dream had been to own a bowling center is his hometown. He graduated from college, because he'd worked, like you, during the summers, and he — and he wanted to own that business. He got a chance to do it.With his student debt, it was really a struggle, because even though he was very responsible, he had done everything we expect a young person to do to try to better himself, he was running into real credit problems.And even now, he's got the business, but he runs it — he has a little grill and restaurant, he, with two employees, is trying to make a go of it. Here's a young, ambitious guy. And when I think about my dad, it was a lot easier in those days to have an idea, to get what you needed and to go to work.The other piece of this, as we were walking around and Dave was telling about all of the incredible machines that are used here in production, all but one are from another country. And many of them, if I'm right, Dave, are from Europe.Unknown: That's correct.Clinton: And so you think — I mean, Europe has high wages. They have high costs. Why are they producing these advanced machines instead of us? What's wrong with this picture?You can — you can see that maybe lower-cost places that are mastering the art of machine production would be competitive, but these are high-value machines. These are very sophisticated machines.How do we get that into more basic production again so that we can resume our lead in manufacturing, something that I think is essential? A lot of people disagree with me. They say, "Oh, you know, those days are over." I don't believe it.You walk around here, you see these machines from, you know, Italy or Germany or wherever else they're from. Why? Why aren't we producing those machines? What do we need to do to jump-start advanced manufacturing once again in our country?So my bottom line is, we've gone through some tough times, and I think Americans have done everything they could think of to do to get through those tough times.But now it's not enough just to tread water; we need to get ahead and stay ahead, and people need to feel that their work is being rewarded, that the deck is not stacked in favor of those at the top, that they too have a chance to go as far as their hard work and their aspiration will take them.So in order to put together a set of policies for my campaign, I really want to make sure that they are in line with the real lives and the real working experiences of the people that I would love to represent as your president.So we're going to take on four big fights. You know, we're going to fight to build the economy of tomorrow, not yesterday, and make the middle class mean something again in this country. We're going to fight to have strong families and strong communities. And of course, it's no accident that I'm at a [inaudible] whose customer market is between six months and six years. That's — that's right where I am focused these days.I want to make sure we have a functioning political system. I'm going to fight for that.I will work with anybody. I've done that. I did it as senator. I will do it again.But I will also stand my ground when we need to, and part of that is getting unaccountable money out of politics, because we cannot afford that, even if it takes a constitutional amendment.And then finally, we always have to be vigilant to protect our country against the threats we know — we can see them — but then the threats we can't see — pandemic diseases, cyber warfare, et cetera.So I'm excited about this campaign. I'm thrilled to be back in New Hampshire. I see some of my friends out there in the audience.And the first place I ever came for any political campaign was in 1991 when I was here campaigning for my husband, in October of 1991. I celebrated my birthday here in — in Keene, and I have a lot of wonderful memories.So with that, Dave, I'm going to turn it back to you, and — and we can start hearing from some of the folks.Question: I think maybe I'll ask the initial question, and you guys will chime in.But — but, you know, early childhood is obviously our interest and — our selfish interest, but also, we're fathers and mothers and brothers and sisters. And I would like you to elaborate on exactly what you think you might do for child-care in the future if — if you're — you know, if you're elected.Clinton: Well, that's a question near and dear to my heart, because I think every society starts with our youngest citizens. And when I got out of law school, I went to work for the Children's Defense Fund. And so my whole adult life, both professionally and my volunteer work, has been around children and families and it is to me the most important commitment we can make.And now it's not only that we want to take care of our children and our grandchildren, but we now know that the way brains develop, thanks to all the great research that is being done by our scientists, that those early years really are critical to the success that a child will have in school and what that child can learn and then what that child can choose to do, what kind of opportunities will be available.So I think we have to start in the family. And I've been working on a project to convince parents, grandparents, aunts and uncles, to read, talk and sing to their babies and that's equally important in any child care setting.So when you are producing furniture that give kids a chance to be part of a circle, to work on a table, all of that, it's safety and stimulation are the two most important needs that little, tiny babies have. And I think we need a much more broadly based universal pre- Kindergarten program so that kids have a chance to get ready for school.And I really applaud states — and they are not — you know, they're not all the states that you might think of — Oklahoma has a universal pre-K program because their state decided they would invest in those early years to get their kids better for school.And I think the child care problem, I was looking at a statistic that it can cost as much as $12,000 a year in New Hampshire for quality child care. That's more than the community college costs, as I understand it.And what are we going to do about that?How can you expect, you know, most families to afford that kind of cost?So we've got to do more to support quality child care and universal pre-kindergarten because by the time a child enters kindergarten, a lot of their brain development has taken place, their vocabulary has been developed and so if we want to do well in school — and I know there's a couple teachers or retired teachers out there, you want to have our kids do well in school, it has to start in those first five years and that's where you come in.And you were telling me about a light table and other things that you prepare for settings where little kids are — that's all to stimulate them and give them a chance to develop that brain and learn more so they are better prepared for school.Question: Yes. Thank you.Guys, you want to start off, anybody?Question: Well, my grandson goes to the Head Start across the way over there [inaubible] in there it's filled with Whitney Brothers products, all down the hallways. They're all on coat lockers. In there are all their — are little tables and chairs. And it made me feel so proud that I worked here, that these people were buying [inaubible].[audio gap]Question: — more for substance abuse, help in our area, there's very limited resources here. And we would like to see something in that respect.Do you have —Clinton: Well — Question: — any further ideas?Clinton: I do, actually. I am — I'm really concerned because, Pam, what you just told me, I'm hearing from a lot of different people. There is a hidden epidemic. You know, the drug abuse problem, whether it's pills or meth or heroin, is not as visible as in, you know, 30 years ago when there were all kinds of gangs and violence. This is a quiet epidemic. And it is striking in small towns and rural areas as much as any big city. And at the same time, we see steady cutbacks in drug abuse programs, treatment programs, mental health programs. I see Senator Kelly here and I know how committed she is to trying to get resources.So we're — we've got a perfect storm. We have an increasing problem that's only beginning to break through the service so that people — you know, I think a lot of people are thinking, well, that's somebody else's problem, it's not my problem and indeed it is all of our problem. And we don't have enough resources, so that if somebody decides that they want to get help, where do you send them?What kind of opportunities do they have for treatment?And I am convinced that the mental health issues — because I consider substance abuse part of mental health issues — is going to be a big part of my campaign because increasingly it's a big issue that people raised with me.And when I was in Iowa last week, I literally heard from one end of the state, from Davenport to Council Bluffs, about this problem and how the state was shutting all their inpatient facilities and there was nowhere for people to be sent.So we've got to do more. We have treatment in the Affordable Care Act, which is a good thing, which we — and we have at least on paper, what's called mental health parity, you know, insurance companies have to care of mental health just like they take care of physical problems.But we are just at the beginning of trying to figure out what this is, and the whole substance abuse issue — I'll just end with this. You probably have read about this small county in Southern Indiana where there was an epidemic of HIV among just people living in the community because they were sharing needles and shooting up some kind of pill that was I guess turned to powder.So now they have not only the drug abuse problem, they have people who contracted HIV. So this is not something we can just brush under the rug and wish it would go away. We need a concerted policy, national, state, local, public, private and we need to try to help young people like the mother of your grandson.Question: Thank you.Question: Well, the drug issue is not really a no-issue here. I mean, as a kid myself, as the son of a minister, of a preacher, the little town that I grew up in, I was the only kid my age who was not involved in drugs of some sort. The dealer lived across the street, the kids used their drugs in the front lawn of the house next door. I mean — and there was no — really no recourse in upstate New York at that time because this little town of 300,000 acres, one town cop, two local sheriffs, that's a lot of territory to cover.So it's not really a no issue but it is certainly an ongoing issue.Clinton: You know, that's exactly right. It's not a new issue, but it's taken a new — kind of a new turn, if you will. And I think more young people — maybe because we stopped the messaging about how dangerous drugs work, because I can remember the same kind of, you know, messages advertising that we would see all the time, you don't see that anymore.And so I think for a lot of young people, especially if it's pills, I think they believe, well, what's wrong with that? I mean, you know it's a prescription pill so that means it must be OK. And they don't know that taking it and mixing it and all the rest is going to be dangerous for them. That's a good point. Yes.Question: Bill?Question: Well, I was in the line with the drugs and things, you made a point that educating the kids at an early age, it might be advantageous to really push the drug issue there at Head Start, you know, just in a — in a way that they'll understand it, no, it's not a good thing to do, even though your friends might do it. You don't need to do this. You don't have to. There's other ways.Clinton: Yes, so starting early.Question: Start it early.Clinton: And, Chris, you hire a lot of people, so you see this, don't you and —Question: Yes. Whitney Brothers actually does drug testing. It's a pre-employment drug testing in order to come to work here, so we want a drug-free workplace.Clinton: Well, I think that sends a strong message and a lot of employers are either doing that or thinking about that going back to doing it, from what I'm hearing.Is that what you hear from your human resource contacts as well?Question: Yes. And Workmen's Comp likes having it, too, because we haven't [inaubible] machines that people are running and if they're high, running them and obviously there's going to be — someone's going to get hurt.Coordination and everything goes downhill.Clinton: Yes.What are some of the other issues?Jim, like, what's on your mind economically and kind of how you see things for yourself and your family?Question: Well, thank you. Because my kids are all grown and they're in their late 20s so they're — have established themselves and they're doing their thing, so I don't have to worry about them anymore in the way I used to with young kids. But for myself, I'm getting, you know, up in age and looking for — I've worked for small companies all my life. And most of them have just enough money to give you minimal health care, to, you know, retirement. I have very little saved for retirement because of you know, trying to make ends meet with kids and you know, it's [inaubible] the resources. And the company I just left before I came here a year ago closed their doors because of the economy — they were — they were making super insulated panels for the building industry, which I thought was the way to go.And so when they closed their doors, I was 27 years working for them, left me with — looking for a new job and thankfully [inaubible] you know, Whitney Brothers were looking for my skills to help them with their products and I'm very thankful for being here.But you know, I look at, you know, hope your ideas on health care and Social Security and you know, where are those — where are those heading? [inaubible] probably I'm in my late 50s right now and you know, 10 years from now I'm going to hopefully work less. You know, what's going to — you know, and so, in regards to our company here, [inaubible], what could be done to help you know, bolster our company here to help us all live a little better life?Clinton: Can I ask you, you worked for 27 years.Was there any kind of retirement account, kind of [inaubible] 401(k), anything?Question: There was initially; that lasted until the economy went belly up back in 2008. And you know, our company went right down the tubes. So it was, you know, people weren't going to, you know, to spend that extra little bit of money to get a better — a better product.And you know, the same what happens here. I mean, we're struggling to try to fight with, you know, the Chinese and other people who are making similar items to us and are, you know, cutting costs and we're, you know, we look at every penny that we put into the — into our products here and try to you know, get everything out of it we can with the CSN machines, with the — with the processes that we use.So, yes, the company I work for was — I always thought was the way to go.Clinton: Well, you know, you really raised an important issue because one of the really big problems we face is that American worker productivity has continued to go up. American workers work longer and harder and more productively than the vast majority of workers anywhere in the world.But it's been very difficult to turn that increased productivity into increased wages and increased benefits. And in some cases, where you have small companies, it's— the margin's just too thin. You know, it's really hard to do that. In some places where you have big companies, they just choose not to. They'd rather stock buybacks than increase the, you know, the wages and salaries of the people who've actually contributed to the productivity and the profits.So I think there has to be a look at the range of different kinds of companies because some companies have the cash and they make decisions that leave out their workers and some people are trying just to keep the doors open and the work coming and be successful and stay afloat.So what we need to figure out is how we incentivize companies that have the cash to do more with it and how we support smaller businesses to be more competitive, to get more market, especially export market.And Dave and I were talking about how important it is for small businesses to have access to market openings. I mean, how do you get the best support you need for a website or for you know, telling other potential customers about your product?How do you compete with, as you say, somebody doing the same thing in China?So I think we have to look at this from kind of the top and the middle and try to figure out what's the best way to do it.On Social Security, though, you know, there is a lot of loose talk about Social Security. And I don't know how people can make some of the arguments they make, because if you look at how dependent so many people are on their Social Security — they've worked hard for it, they retire, they postpone retirement as long as possible because they want to keep working, but they also want to, you know, get the maximum amount of payout from Social Security.You know, the Social Security trust fund, according to the trustees, will be solvent until 2035. So what do we do to make sure it is there and we don't mess with it and we don't, you know, pretend that it's a luxury, because it's not a luxury. It's a necessity for the majority of people who draw from Social Security.So I think there will be some big political arguments about Social Security. And my only question to everybody who thinks we can privatize Social Security or, you know, undermine it in some way is — and so then what's going to happen to all these people like you, who worked 27 years at this other company?What's going to happen? It's just wrong.So part of what we have to do is say, look, let's everybody take a deep breath. Let's figure out what works and how we build on what works. And let's not get into arguments, as I say, about ideology and rhetorical, you know, attacks and claims. Let's just kind of take a deep breath here as a country and say, OK, we're going to have a retirement issue and people who have worked hard deserve to have enough security when they retire so that they can have a good quality of life. And so I'm 100 percent committed to that.Question: That sort of dovetails with what Mary's situation — and I don't know your whole circumstances, Mary, but you know, Mary worked here for a number of years, quit, and then come back. If you could just talk briefly about why you came back and was it a — was it a financial decision or was just because you were bored or what?Question: Actually, it was a financial situation. As a homeowner there's always overhead that have to be done, those things you have to keep up that you don't really count on when you're not working. So coming back to work and I said I have, why not come back to Whitney Brothers? It's a place that I know I'm familiar with, I like it and I like the product. [inaubible] financially.Clinton: Did you think, Mary, when you retired the first time that you had enough resources to be able to take care of your needs and then something unexpected happened?Question: Yes.Clinton: OK.Question: Yes.Clinton: OK.Are you —Question: I thought I could — I could live like comfortable, not above but comfortable.Clinton: What — did you start drawing Social Security?Question: Yes.Clinton: What did you get a month, do you — do you remember what you were drawing on Social Security?Question: [inaubible]?Clinton: Yes, when you started?[crosstalk]Question: You don't remember what you — what amount you were [inaubible] amount?Question: Yes, yes.Question: [inaubible] amount.Well, I also had a retirement, too, but I dropped from a Social Security $1,400.Clinton: $1,400 a month? OK.Question: Yes.Clinton: So I think that, you know, if you — if you look just realistically, especially if you still own your home, you're still obviously very independent and able to take care of yourself, you are going to have a lot of expenses, both predicted and unpredictable.So when you came back, did you believe that you were here for a period of years, or are you going to —Question: Just —Clinton: — take it year by year?Question: — yes, part-time.Clinton: OK, part-time. All right.Question: Going to catch up on those [inaubible].[laughter]Clinton: I can tell, yes. They were calling you every day, saying, why don't you come back?It really was a — it was really unexpected expense, right?Question: Her kind of experience, you know, being here so many years, it's really priceless, I mean — and that brings up something I would like to have you address and that — one of the biggest problems we have, Madam Secretary, is getting good CNC adult center trained in math and computers and, you know, we're — we compete against a lot of local companies that are — you know, you look at our ads in the local newspapers or on the Internet, I mean, i is CNC folks, it's a — people that have math skills. You know, we're — our machines are metric and our — the architects and dealers are in standards so where we're switching. So you need intelligent employees. And you know, we have the college and the high school do have technical services.But it just doesn't seem to be [inaubible] we're always struggling to find people like that.Would you agree?Question: Yes, I do agree.Question: Yes.So I mean, what —Clinton: Well, I met — I met a young man, I don't know if he's out here —Question: Dan? Dan Brown, somewhere?Clinton: — yes, he went to the Keene State College program to learn these skills and that's what we need more of, right. You need at the high school and the college level, community, four-year college, more programs that are related to the skills that employers actually need.You know, what are the job skills that you are trying to —[crosstalk]Question: It's technical skills, it's —[crosstalk]Question: — I think there is a place for the humanities, but it's the technical skills, the electricians, the plumbers, those are the guys that we're looking for, and those are the people.Clinton: Well, I think we have to get back to encouraging more young people to see these as careers and then we have to have both more education-based skills programs and employer-based skills programs, you know, the kind of apprenticeship programs and other training programs that are both public and private and try to give young people the opportunities.It's really important that we do more to publicize why these skills are going to get you a good job. I think we have kind of lost the thread here. Too many young people don't know — nobody's told them that, you know, you can get a really good job, as you just named, an electrician or a welder, you name it — and the computerized numeric control systems that you're talking about on these big machines, that takes, you know, a year or two of training to really understand, because that's a level beyond what we typically think of as technical education.So I would love to hear from you — and maybe start with you, indeed, Chris, because when people come for a job interview, where have they gotten their skills or do they even know that those skills would enhance their chance to get hired?Question: I think the majority of the people that come here, on the job training, they've been other places so they've done — it's not really any tool change.There is a career center at the high school, but it's more metal and more wood. It — you know, it can go hand in hand, but with us, we look more for wood and it's more on-the-job training that people [inaubible].Question: Yes, so we're having to train relatively green people to run the machines. And it has worked out, but, I mean, again, you know, in the — in the local marketplace, we are competing against a lot of different companies that are — that need CNC operators. So you know, we might train someone for a year or two and they might go somewhere else for a couple of dollars more. And that — I mean, that's life, that's tough, but we would like to think that there could be a greater pool of technical — technically skilled people in this —[crosstalk]Question: Hard for us to retain the CNC operators because with — we are doing wood manufacturing and we are going against the overseas people. So we need to keep our costs low and we only can pay so much [inaubible].Clinton: Yes, so you have got cost pressures plus skill pressures.Question: Right.Clinton: Well, I think, first of all, we just have to have more programs that are going to prepare more people. I mean, that sounds so simplistic, but we kind of backed off from what used to be called vocational education and I think that we made a mistake because we backed off, thinking that it was going to be picked up by either businesses or community colleges, technical schools and that didn't happen fast enough. It's starting to happen now. There are more and more places where you can get these kind of advanced skills, but we need to create a bigger pool of people in order to meet the needs that you are talking about.I visited a community college in Iowa last year that takes high school students and trains them on CNC. And then they are able to really be job prepared when they leave high school, which is amazing. But they still have a relatively — they might graduate — I think they told me 30 or 40 a year, when the demand is much greater than that.So I think we have to take up — I really approve of the president's proposal to try to make community college as free as possible. That would be a big help here in New Hampshire, where it's so costly. I mean, the amount of tuition is so high, both in the two- year and the four-year schools, but that still doesn't help unless we somehow provide incentives for more people, younger and older, to go into these trades, right.Question: Yes, I was just going to, you know, comment on, you know, being as if I had to switch jobs again for some reason, thank God I have — still have decent skills. As a — as a draftsman and designer, you know, I learned how to, you know, use the computer on my own without any education, which if I had more education, I might have been able to do more.But to afford to go back to school, time wise as well as cost, is always hard, especially like say with health care and all that, you know, taking the little bits out of my pay, that there isn't any money for me to go back to school to try to get other new skills, to — and need to either enhance what I am doing here or to think about, you know, if I ever decided to move somewhere else.Question: Before I came to Whitney Brothers I had actually looked into a CNC program that's offered by the local community college, but it was only going to be in Clermont that next session and of course that was the middle of winter. And it's a bit of a hike up there.[crosstalk]Question: Fortunately, I found this place and it worked out very well.Clinton: Now what are your hours of operation?Question: We're 7:00 to 3:30 but we're always doing overtime. So it goes to 4:30, sometimes 5:00, so it's eight or nine hours. And then during the summer occasionally we have skeleton crews on the second shift, because our — the nature of our business is the busy months are June, July and August and September, before school starts.Clinton: I mean, I'm just thinking that you know, you have this equipment here, if you get some kind of grant or other support from either local government, state government, even the community college or the colleges and you know, you could have a program at night. I mean, it — you know, if somebody were to come in and basically say we are going to designate Whitney Brothers as one of our training facilities and your expert employees would get some kind of wage bump because you would be the instructors.I just think we've got to be imagining outside the old box about what we're going to do to get our skills up, how we're going to get more people of all ages to have the opportunity to improve those skills. Very hard to do it if you're already working during the workday — but maybe there could be some, you know, cooperative approach that might make a difference. I just — from my perspective, I hear it everywhere. I hear we don't have enough skilled workers, with technical skills. We don't have enough R.N.s and CNAs. We have a whole missing group of workers that could be employed you know, in our existing industries, and so how do we fix that? Because we don't fix it, we're not going to be able to be competitive. We're always going to be, you know, behind the curve in trying to succeed [inaubible].Question: Going back to changing the mindset, I mean, when I was in school and growing up, there was nothing wrong with being an electrician or a plumber or a carpenter. I mean, these were really good jobs and you know, you could make good money doing that. And it seemed to fall off the table. Everybody wants to go right to the top. Well, no, you got to be at the bottom before you can kind of work your way in there.And I think if we work in the high schools, even in the grammar schools in some points, you know, get these kids — a lot of kids just don't want to go to school. They don't want to go to college. You know, well, fine, you don't have to go to college to make a good living. But you have to get it out there, that it's OK not to go to college if you don't want to, but these are good positions. You can get a good job, you can make a good living, support your family by doing these other things. And I think that kind of got off track. Clinton: I agree with you.Does anybody else feel that way?Question: When I was in high school, we had to have at least a semester or two of shop classes.Clinton: When I was, too. Yes.Question: Everything it seems got computerized and everybody wants either sit with their gadgets or, oh, I'll design computer games. That's what I'm good at. I love — I'd love to do it. And [inaubible] do that. But you know, it is true, you need a nurse. You're going to get sick sometime, you know, we all want to live somewhere. We got to have these people building our houses. And we want to be here working at Whitney Brothers, you know.[laughter]Question: You've got to have that —Question: Somebody has got to be making the —Question: — at night when your [inaubible][crosstalk]Question: Somebody's got to fix it. Yes.Question: Yes.Question: That we're not all computer geeks. I don't think I could be one if I tried.[laughter]Question: You know? You just — you have to find your fit, you know. But I think the generation coming up needs that push to say, well, you know, here are some of these other things to do besides sit in front of a computer your whole entire life.Question: Yes.Clinton: You know, one of the kids that they told me about at this community college, advanced manufacturing program, graduated from high school and got a $40,000 job as a welder because there was such a shortage. And he'd had a two-year program, passed some kind of national certification. So here he is, like 18 years old and you know, starting off on a really good track. Yes.Question: There was some — you probably know more about it than I do, but I heard it, that there are several high schools in Chicago that are affiliated with like IBM is one of them, one of their companies and it's an eight-year program, it's not four years and these kids are trained through high school and into this extended high school, as it were, being mentored by IBM. And when they get done, they are guaranteed a job at $40,000 a year in the company. And so, you know, you don't have to go to the University of Illinois. You're going to get your training right here. And I think five out of the eight schools in the country are in Chicago.Clinton: Well, that's exactly the kind of model that we need to look at and try to see where we could implement that. I think we have to try all different kinds of approaches and first it's to figure out what's already working and do more of that. And then I think you make a very strong point, we have to persuade, particularly young people, that this is an opportunity, that this is part of the economy that really needs them.And yes, some might want to be computer programmers and some might want to be the best welder or the best plumber. But we have to make it once again attractive for young people to feel like that's a good route for them.Well, Dave, we will give you the last word because you have been here — how long have you worked here?Question: Thirty-two years.Clinton: Yes.Question: A long time.Question: A long time.Question: But it's been great. I mean, it's a wonderful industry. And you know, I get to do R&D work by going to child care centers. And you know, you get little 3- and 4-year olds running around. And you know, it really is quite a — I have an enviable job. And then, but you know, we — I am still a small business owner and as such I have the 3M worries also.So it's not all peach and cream. Actually, you know, in 2006 we had a flood and we had — actually there was about two feet of water where we're sitting. And the SBA was great to give us a low-interest loan. So kudos to the SBA.But I guess one final question I might ask you is that capital improvements, you know, we like keeping our machines monitored and up to date and historically, I think the last 8-10 years we have been able to write off the capital improvements in the year that they were installed and now in 2015, they're talking about reducing that to $25,000.And I know that's Congress, but I'm curious as to your feeling. I mean, if you are president, are you — what can you do to help small businesses like ours to improve the equipment that we have and not make it so onerous that — so that we can — we can spread it out and still do right by the IRS?Clinton: Yes, no, I think that's an important question and I can assure you that I don't want to make your life any more onerous. I want you to be able to invest in both maintenance and upgrading of existing equipment and, like that new printing machine you showed me, new equipment, if that's going to make you competitive.I think what we have to do is we have to look at the whole tax system and try to figure out what is an economic investment as opposed to one without economic purpose, because there are a lot of those, where people are just basically playing games and — you know, not — you know, like capital gains was supposed to be, for example, a way to reward people who made risky investments, you know, starting new business, investing in somebody else's business and now it's just being churned. And so we have to take a look at the whole tax system.But I can — I can assure you, I would not support anything that makes your business more difficult to run, because you have a real business and you have real economic imperatives. You are in the production of goods and I want to do everything I can to support goods and real services and take a hard look at what is now being done in the trading world, you know, which is just trading for the sake of trading. And you know, it's just wrong that you know, a hedge fund manager pays lower tax rates than a nurse or a trucker or an assembly worker here at Whitney Brothers.And so I think we have to say, look, if you're doing something which is enhancing the economic productivity of your business and the larger economy, we'll be open to that, but if it's just you know, playing back and forth in the global marketplace to get you know, 0.1 of 1 percent advantage, maybe we should not let that go on. Because that is unfortunately kind of at the root of some of the economic problems that we all remember painfully from '08.So I think that, from your perspective, I would want to be a president who made it as easy as possible for you to be as productive and profitable as possible because you've got 40-plus people whose lives and families depend upon that.Question: Yes.Clinton: Right?Question: Yes, absolutely.Clinton: Yes.Question: Yes.Well, great. It's been great to have you here.Clinton: Yes, thank you.Question: Thank you all for coming.I know the secretary has got a busy schedule, so I think — I'm not quite sure how this works from here.Clinton: Well, I think what we'd like to do is a picture with everybody who was in the roundtable. And then, you know, I want to say hello to some of my friends who are here.
Thank you so much. I am absolutely delighted to be back here at Columbia. I want to thank President Bollinger, Dean Janow, and everyone at the School of International and Public Affairs. It is a special treat to be here with and on behalf of a great leader of this city and our country, David Dinkins. He has made such an indelible impact on New York, and I had the great privilege of working with him as First Lady and then, of course, as a new senator.When I was just starting out as a senator, David's door was always open. He and his wonderful wife Joyce were great friends and supporters and good sounding boards about ideas that we wanted to consider to enhance the quality of life and the opportunities for the people of this city. I was pleased to address the Dinkins Leadership and Public Policy Forum in my first year as a senator, and I so appreciated then as I have in the years since David's generosity with his time and most of all his wisdom. So 14 years later, I'm honored to have this chance, once again, to help celebrate the legacy of one of New York's greatest public servants.I'm pleased too that you will have the opportunity after my remarks to hear from such a distinguished panel, to go into more detail about some of the issues that we face. I also know that Manhattan Borough President Gale Brewer is here, along with other local and community leaders.Because surely this is a time when our collective efforts to devise approaches to the problems that still afflict us is more important than ever. Indeed, it is a time for wisdom.For yet again, the family of a young black man is grieving a life cut short.Yet again, the streets of an American city are marred by violence. By shattered glass and shouts of anger and shows of force.Yet again a community is reeling, its fault lines laid bare and its bonds of trust and respect frayed.Yet again, brave police officers have been attacked in the line of duty.What we've seen in Baltimore should, indeed does, tear at our soul. And, from Ferguson to Staten Island to Baltimore, the patterns have become unmistakable and undeniable.Walter Scott shot in the back in Charleston, South Carolina. Unarmed. In debt. And terrified of spending more time in jail for child support payments he couldn't afford.Tamir Rice shot in a park in Cleveland, Ohio. Unarmed and just 12 years old.Eric Garner choked to death after being stopped for selling cigarettes on the streets of this city.And now Freddie Gray. His spine nearly severed while in police custody.Not only as a mother and a grandmother but as a citizen, a human being, my heart breaks for these young men and their families. We have to come to terms with some hard truths about race and justice in America.There is something profoundly wrong when African American men are still far more likely to be stopped and searched by police, charged with crimes, and sentenced to longer prison terms than are meted out to their white counterparts.There is something wrong when a third of all black men face the prospect of prison during their lifetimes. And an estimated 1.5 million black men are "missing" from their families and communities because of incarceration and premature death.There is something wrong when more than one out of every three young black men in Baltimore can't find a job.There is something wrong when trust between law enforcement and the communities they serve breaks down as far as it has in many of our communities.We have allowed our criminal justice system to get out of balance. And these recent tragedies should galvanize us to come together as a nation to find our balance again.We should begin by heeding the pleas of Freddie Gray's family for peace and unity, echoing the families of Michael Brown, Trayvon Martin, and others in the past years. Those who are instigating further violence in Baltimore are disrespecting the Gray family and the entire community. They are compounding the tragedy of Freddie Gray's death and setting back the cause of justice. So the violence has to stop.But more broadly, let's remember that everyone in every community benefits when there is respect for the law and when everyone in every community is respected by the law. That is what we have to work towards in Baltimore and across our country.We must urgently begin to rebuild the bonds of trust and respect among Americans. Between police and citizens, yes, but also across society.Restoring trust in our politics, our press, our markets. Between and among neighbors and even people with whom we disagree politically.This is so fundamental to who we are as a nation and everything we want to achieve together.It truly is about how we treat each other and what we value. Making it possible for every American to reach his or her God-given potential—regardless of who you are, where you were born, or who you love.The inequities that persist in our justice system undermine this shared vision of what America can be and should be.I learned this firsthand as a young attorney just out of law school—at one of those law schools that will remain nameless here at Columbia. One of my earliest jobs for the Children's Defense Fund, which David had mentioned—I was so fortunate to work with Marian Wright Edelman as a young lawyer and then serving on the board of the Children's Defense Fund—was studying the problem then of youth, teenagers, sometimes preteens, incarcerated in adult jails. Then, as director of the University of Arkansas School of Law's legal aid clinic, I advocated on behalf of prison inmates and poor families. I saw repeatedly how our legal system can be and all too often is stacked against those who have the least power, who are the most vulnerable. I saw how families could be and were torn apart by excessive incarceration. I saw the toll on children growing up in homes shattered by poverty and prison.So, unfortunately, I know these are not new challenges by any means.In fact they have become even more complex and urgent over time. And today they demand fresh thinking and bold action from all of us.Today there seems to be a growing bipartisan movement for commonsense reforms in our criminal justice systems. Senators as disparate on the political spectrum as Cory Booker and Rand Paul and Dick Durbin and Mike Lee are reaching across the aisle to find ways to work together. It is rare to see Democrats and Republicans agree on anything today. But we're beginning to agreeing on this: We need to restore balance to our criminal justice system.Now of course it is not enough just to agree and give speeches about it—we actually have to work together to get the job done.We need to deliver real reforms that can be felt on our streets, in our courthouses, and our jails and prisons, in communities too long neglected.Let me touch on two areas in particular where I believe we need to push for more progress.First, we need smart strategies to fight crime that help restore trust between law enforcement and our communities, especially communities of color.There's a lot of good work to build on. Across the country, there are so many police officers out there every day inspiring trust and confidence, honorably doing their duty, putting themselves on the line to save lives. There are police departments already deploying creative and effective strategies, demonstrating how we can protect the public without resorting to unnecessary force. We need to learn from those examples, build on what works.We can start by making sure that federal funds for state and local law enforcement are used to bolster best practices, rather than to buy weapons of war that have no place on our streets.President Obama's task force on policing gives us a good place to start. Its recommendations offer a roadmap for reform, from training to technology, guided by more and better data.We should make sure every police department in the country has body cameras to record interactions between officers on patrol and suspects. That will improve transparency and accountability, it will help protect good people on both sides of the lens. For every tragedy caught on tape, there surely have been many more that remained invisible. Not every problem can be or will be prevented with cameras, but this is a commonsense step we should take.The President has provided the idea of matching funds to state and local governments investing in body cameras. We should go even further and make this the norm everywhere.And we should listen to law enforcement leaders who are calling for a renewed focus on working with communities to prevent crime, rather than measuring success just by the number of arrests or convictions. As your Senator from New York, I supported a greater emphasis on community policing, along with putting more officers on the street to get to know those communities.David Dinkins was an early pioneer of this policy. His leadership helped lay the foundation for dramatic drops in crime in the years that followed.And today smart policing in communities that builds relationships, partnerships, and trust makes more sense than ever. And it shouldn't be limited just to officers on the beat. It's an ethic that should extend throughout our criminal justice system. To prosecutors and parole officers. To judges and lawmakers.We all share a responsibility to help re-stitch the fabric of our neighborhoods and communities.We also have to be honest about the gaps that exist across our country, the inequality that stalks our streets. Because you cannot talk about smart policing and reforming the criminal justice system if you also don't talk about what's needed to provide economic opportunity, better educational chances for young people, more support to families so they can do the best jobs they are capable of doing to help support their own children. Today I saw an article on the front page of USA Today that really struck me, written by a journalist who lives in Baltimore. And here's what I read three times to make sure I was reading correctly: "At a conference in 2013 at Johns Hopkins University, Vice Provost Jonathan Bagger pointed out that 'only six miles separate the Baltimore neighborhoods of Roland Park and Hollins Market. But there is a 20-year difference in the average life expectancy.'"We have learned in the last few years that life expectancy, which is a measure of the quality of life in communities and countries, manifests the same inequality that we see in so many other parts of our society.Women—white women without high school education—are losing life expectancy. Black men and black women are seeing their life expectancy goes down in so many parts of our country. This may not grab headlines, although I was glad to see it on the front page of USA Today. But it tells us more than I think we can bear about what we are up against. We need to start understanding how important it is to care for every single child as though that child were our own. David and I started our conversation this morning talking about our grandchildren; now his are considerably older than mine. But it was not just two longtime friends catching up with each other. It was so clearly sharing what is most important to us, as it is to families everywhere in our country.So I don't want the discussion about criminal justice, smart policing, to be siloed and to permit discussions and arguments and debates about it to only talk about that. The conversation needs to be much broader. Because that is a symptom, not a cause, of what ails us today.The second area where we need to chart a new course is how we approach punishment and prison.It's a stark fact that the United States has less than 5 percent of the world's population, yet we have almost 25 percent of the world's total prison population. The numbers today are much higher than they were 30, 40 years ago, despite the fact that crime is at historic lows.Of the more than 2 million Americans incarcerated today, a significant percentage are low-level offenders: people held for violating parole or minor drug crimes, or who are simply awaiting trial in backlogged courts.Keeping them behind bars does little to reduce crime. But it is does a lot to tear apart families and communities.One in every 28 children now has a parent in prison. Think about what that means for those children.When we talk about one and a half million missing African American men, we're talking about missing husbands, missing fathers, missing brothers.They're not there to look after their children or bring home a paycheck. And the consequences are profound. Without the mass incarceration that we currently practice, millions fewer people would be living in poverty. And it's not just families trying to stay afloat with one parent behind bars. Of the 600,000 prisoners who reenter society each year, roughly 60 percent face long-term unemployment.And for all this, taxpayers are paying about $80 billion a year to keep so many people in prison.The price of incarcerating a single inmate is often more than $30,000 per year—and up to $60,000 in some states. That's the salary of a teacher or police officer.One year in a New Jersey state prison costs $44,000—more than the annual tuition at Princeton. If the United States brought our correctional expenditures back in line with where they were several decades ago, we'd save an estimated $28 billion a year. And I believe we would not be less safe. You can pay a lot of police officers and nurses and others with $28 billion to help us deal with the pipeline issues.It's time to change our approach. It's time to end the era of mass incarceration. We need a true national debate about how to reduce our prison population while keeping our communities safe.I don't know all the answers. That's why I'm here—to ask all the smart people in Columbia and New York to start thinking this through with me. I know we should work together to pursue together to pursue alternative punishments for low-level offenders. They do have to be in some way registered in the criminal justice system, but we don't want that to be a fast track to long-term criminal activity, we don't want to create another "incarceration generation."I've been encouraged to see changes that I supported as Senator to reduce the unjust federal sentencing disparity between crack and powder cocaine crimes finally become law. And last year, the Sentencing Commission reduced recommended prison terms for some drug crimes. President Obama and former Attorney General Holder have led the way with important additional steps. And I am looking forward to our new Attorney General, Loretta Lynch, carrying this work forward.There are other measures that I and so many others have championed to reform arbitrary mandatory minimum sentences are long overdue.We also need probation and drug diversion programs to deal swiftly with violations, while allowing low-level offenders who stay clean and stay out of trouble to stay out of prison. I've seen the positive effects of specialized drug courts and juvenile programs work to the betterment of individuals and communities. And please, please, let us put mental health back at the top of our national agenda. You and I know that the promise of de-institutionalizing those in mental health facilities was supposed to be followed by the creation of community-based treatment centers. Well, we got half of that equation—but not the other half. Our prisons and our jails are now our mental health institutions.I have to tell you I was somewhat surprised in both Iowa and New Hampshire to be asked so many questions about mental health. "What are we going to do with people who need help for substance abuse or mental illness?" "What are we going to do when the remaining facilities are being shut down for budget reasons?" "What are we going to do when hospitals don't really get reimbursed for providing the kind of emergency care that is needed for mental health patients?"It's not just a problem in our cities. There's a quiet epidemic of substance abuse sweeping small-town and rural America as well. We have to do more and finally get serious about treatment.I'll be talking about all of this in the months to come, offering new solutions to protect and strengthen our families and communities.I know in a time when we're afflicted by short-termism, we're not looking over the horizon for the investments that we need to make in our fellow citizens, in our children. So I'm well aware that progress will not be easy, despite the emerging bipartisan consensus for certain reforms. And that we will have to overcome deep divisions and try to begin to replenish our depleted reservoirs of trust.But I am convinced, as the congenital optimist I must be to live my life, that we can rise to this challenge. We can heal our wounds. We can restore balance to our justice system and respect in our communities. And we can make sure that we take actions that are going to make a difference in the lives of those who for too long have been marginalized and forgotten.Let's protect the rights of all our people. Let's take on the broader inequities in our society. We can't separate out the unrest we see in the streets from the cycles of poverty and despair that hollow out those neighborhoods.Despite all the progress we've made in this country lifting people up—and it has been extraordinary—too many of our fellow citizens are still left out.Twenty-five years ago, in his inaugural address as Mayor, David Dinkins warned of leaving "too many lost amidst the wealth and grandeur that surrounds us."Today, his words and the emotion behind them ring truer than ever. You don't have to look too far from this magnificent hall to find children still living in poverty or trapped in failing schools. Families who work hard but can't afford the rising prices in their neighborhood.Mothers and fathers who fear for their sons' safety when they go off to school—or just to go buy a pack of Skittles.These challenges are all woven together. And they all must be tackled together.Our goal must truly be inclusive and lasting prosperity that's measured by how many families get ahead and stay ahead...How many children climb out of poverty and stay out of prison...How many young people can go to college without breaking the bank...How many new immigrants can start small businesses ...How many parents can get good jobs that allow them to balance the demands of work and family.That's how we should measure prosperity. With all due respect, that is a far better measurement than the size of the bonuses handed out in downtown office buildings.Now even in the most painful times like those we are seeing in Baltimore ...When parents fear for their children...When smoke fills the skies above our cities...When police officers are assaulted...Even then—especially then—let's remember the aspirations and values that unite us all: That every person should have the opportunity to succeed. That no one is disposable. That every life matters.So yes, Mayor Dinkins. This is a time for wisdom.A time for honesty about race and justice in America. And, yes, a time for reform.David Dinkins is a leader we can look to. We know what he stood for. Let us take the challenge and example he presents and think about what we must do to make sure that this country we love—this city we live in—are both good and great.And please join me in saying a prayer for the family of Freddie Gray, and all the men whose names we know and those we don't who have lost their lives unnecessarily and tragically. And in particular today, include in that prayer the people of Baltimore and our beloved country.Thank you all very much.
CLINTON: Oh, hello. Hi, how are you? Well, it's wonderful to be back in Nevada and here at Rancho. I am delighted to be joined by a number of young people who are going to talk with me and all of you about their lives, their stories, and in particular immigration. I want to acknowledge my friend and Congresswoman Dina Titus. Thank you so much for being here. And it is Cinco de Mayo, so that's especially appropriate day for us to be having this conversation. I want to begin by thanking everyone at Rancho High School for hosting us today. I'm looking forward to hearing from each of our panel participants. I have a lot of wonderful memories from my time here in Nevada. I've gone door to door meeting with families not far from the school. I've met with a lot of culinary workers and other workers who keep the economy going strong. I accompany the registered nurse on 12-hour shift at St. Rose Dominican Hospital and then was very pleased to go back to her home and have dinner with her and her kids. And I know how hard hits Nevadans work by the great recession. This date in particular suffered some very tough blows. There were a much higher than average home for closure rate for example, a lot of people lost their jobs or their hours or cut dramatically which made it more difficult for them to continue to make a good living. We now see that this state is coming back from those top economic times. Families have found a lot of different ways to make it work for them. We also saw people once again starting businesses, thinking about sending their kids to college. Maybe doing some home repairs, maybe putting a little bit aside for retirement. But we're not yet back on our feet. We have certainly climbed out of the hole we were in, but now we've got to do more than just get by. We have to get ahead and stay ahead. And there are a lot of ways that we have to think about how we do that together. I think that it's important to recognize that even with all of the hard work and sacrifices so many families made, in many ways, the deck is stacked in favor of those at the top. And I'm well aware that in Las Vegas there is nothing worse than a stacked deck. I want to reshuffle the deck. I want to be a champion for hard-working Americans. I want to work across party lines. I want to work with the public and the private sector. I want people to get back to the good old-fashioned American style of problem solving and setting us on back the right course. Now, to help reshuffle the deck, people have to do their part. They have to, you know, step up and take education seriously. They have to be willing to work hard because nothing is given to you. My dad was a small businessman and when I say that he was a really small businessman, you know, just a few day workers from time to time. My mom, my brothers and I, but he understood hard work was the path forward in the United States. He made a good living for our family and I will forever be grateful for that. Because when families are strong, America is strong. And I am convinced having thought for families going all the way back to my years in law school and ever since, there is nothing more important. Now in this campaign, I think we have to wage and win four big fights. One is to build the economy of tomorrow, not yesterday. And that means we've got to be really focused on what is going to prepare young people and we have to start early. Education is the key. But education in the first years of life is essential. Because now we know that brain development really has formed by the time a child is three or four. So, we've got to do more to make sure every child has the best chance to do well in school, to get ahead, to charge his or her own future, to live up to his or her own God-given potential. It's also essential that we strengthen families and communities and that's means we have to finally once and for all fix our immigration system. This is a family issue. It's an economic issue, too. But it is at heart a family issue at. And if we claim that we are for families, we have to pull together and resolve the outstanding issues around our broken immigration system. The American people support comprehensive immigration reform, not just because it's the right thing to do, and it is, but because they know it strengthens families, strengthens our economy, and strengthens our country. That's why we can't wait any longer. We can't wait any longer for a path to fall and equal citizenship. Now this is where i differ with everybody on the republican side. Make no mistakes, today not a single republican candidate announced or potential is clearly and consistently supporting a path to citizenship. Not one. When they talk about legal status, that is code for second-class status. And we should never forget who this debate is about and you're going to meet some of them in just a minute. People who work hard, who love this country, who pay taxes to it and wants nothing more than to build a good future for themselves and their children. We're talking about the young people at this table. They are dreamers in much more than name. They are kids that any parents or grandparent would be proud of. And I don't understand how anyone can look at these young people and think we should break up more families, or turn away more hard workers with talent to help us build the kind of country we all want to see. So, I will fight for comprehensive immigration reform and a path to citizenship for you and for your family across our country. I will fight to stop partisan attacks on the executive actions that would put dreamers, including those with us today, at risk of deportation. And if Congress continues to refuse to act as president, I would do everything possible under the law to go even further. There are more people, like many parents have dreamers, and others, with deep ties and contributions to our communities, who deserve a chance to stay and i will fight for them. The law currently allows for sympathetic cases to be reviewed but right now most of these cases have no way to get a real hearing. Therefore, we should put in place a simple, straightforward, accessible way for parents of dreamers and others with a history of service and contribution to their communities, to make their case and to be eligible for the same deferred action as their children. But that's just the beginning. There's much more to do to expand and enhance protections for families and communities to reform immigration and enforcement and detention practices, so they are more humane, targeted, and effective. And to keep building the pressure and support for comprehensive reform. You know, our personal basis, the first time I ever met anyone who was in our country working was when I was about 12 years old, as I recall. And through my church, I was recruited, along with some other girls in our Sunday school class to serve as babysitters on Saturday for the small children, so the older children could join their parents in the fields because believe it or not when I was growing up in the Chicago area, it was farm field as far as the eye could see. And the migrants, immigrant laborer would come up, through the Texas up through Midwest, up to Chicago, then up to Michigan. And we were asked to try to help out. I remember going to the camp where the families lived and taking care of the little kids, while kids at my age were doing really hard work. And what stuck in my mind was how at the end of the day there was a long road from in the camp that went out to a kind of dirt road in the middle of the fields. And the bus that had the workers from the field down it that came back around 4:00, 5:00 in the afternoon, stopped and let off the parents and the older brothers and sisters and all these little kids started running down the path to see their moms and dads and their big brothers and sisters. And they were scooped up by these really, really tired people. And I just watched this and I thought, they're just like me and my brothers. You know, when my dad comes home from work, and we go out to see him. After he has come back from his day of doing what he had to do to help support us. I've never gotten that experience to the image out of my mind. And so, for me, this is about what kind of people we are and what kind of country we have. And I am actually convinced this is in our economic interest. It's in the interest of our values and it's even in the interest of our long-term security as a nation. So, you know, where I stand. And there can be no question about it because I will do everything I can, as president, and during this campaign, to make this case. I know there are people who disagree with me but I want them to have a conversation with me. Because the facts are really clear. You know, we know how much people who are working hard contribute to our economy, both in what they buy and what they pay in Texas. In fact in New York, which I know a little bit about because I representative for eight years and I lived there now, our undocumented workers in New York pay more in taxes than some of the biggest corporations in New York. So, I'm ready to have this discussion with anybody, anywhere, any time. But let me turn to the people who are living this story. I want you to meet them. I want you to hear from them. And I'm going to start with you, Asther , if you will introduce yourself, and talk about your own life and what brings you to the table today. SILVA: Thank you, secretary. My name is Asther Silva. I am currently a student at the Nevada State College pursuing my degree in history with thesis in pre-law. I arrived in United States when I was four years old. And Nevada has been my home since I was five. I came here with my mom and dad. I had a younger brother here. He is a United States citizen. Fortunately, our family was scammed when I was very young. And because of that my father was given a deportation order. And so know, he's in order of deportation. CLINTON: He was scammed because you hired a lawyer to help you? SILVA: Yes. Well, it wasn't a lawyer. It was [inaudible] who took advantage of the fact that, you know, there was a lot of different immigration programs in the 1990s and people did not understand the differences. And so because of that, in 2001, my father was given deportation order that was not acted on until 2011. So our family in those 10 years did not know he been had that order deportation. Right now, thankfully, because of prior to your discussion, my dad has state of removal so he will qualify for the different action program once the lawsuit that's really an obstacle right now is moved out of the way. And my mom will who is here, she will be able to apply so that we're not afraid that she will be deported. CLINTON: And talk to me a little bit about what you have done in school. How you see your future. The contributions you have already made as a young person and what you would like to do further. SILVA: Growing up, I was really dedicated to school. My parents, they put a really big emphasis on me succeeding because of all the sacrifices they had made. They had not seen their family in 25 years. And so when I went to elementary school, middle school, I was really—I was dedicated. In seventh grade, I was named the gladiator of the year at my middle school because I was the student that showed—ironically the most citizenship. And so just programs like that, but I could not take advantage of them because when once I turned the age of going to college, I couldn't have a way out. I was afraid for many years until finally a counselor at my college, at the college at College of Southern Nevada at that time knew what was happening and helped guide me and I became involved in politics. And knowing that I didn't have to be afraid from myself because there was something, and I met other people that we're in the same situation as myself, which is something that never happened before. CLINTON: Erica—that his mom. Part of our jobs as mom is to embarrass our children at any possible moment, but also when we're proud of them to show that pride. So, I'm happy that they're there. Erica, how did you end up here with us today? ERICA: I'm here to basically share my story. I came to the United States when I was two years old. My parents and I made the journey here after we lost my little sister. They basically wanted to give me a better future. I now have a 17-year-old brother. He's a U.S. citizen. And now with my parents would qualify if the lawsuit was lifted. I'm currently going to CFS. I want to major in political science and psychology. And I'm just here wondering what are your plans to help my community and help my family and help us not to live in fear anymore? CLINTON: Yes. Now that's why I think it so important that we continue to try to change the laws comprehensively. But as I have said numerous times, I support the president's action in the face of in action. I was personally very disappointed that when I was a senator for eight years, we had a few chances to try to do more for dreamers, do more for comprehensive immigration reform, and we were not successful. And then when I was Secretary of State, I was very pleased that there was bipartisan agreement in the Senate for comprehensive immigration reform. And it was such a good signal that Democrats and Republicans can work together, could solve a difficult problem, could put aside partisan differences. And the Senate passed it and the House of Representatives would never take it up. And I think it would have passed if they had taken it up. But I think that they—the leadership in the House decided that politically they didn't want to do that because they had people who were strongly opposed to comprehensive immigration reform. But I think we have to keep working on it. And that is why your stories are so important because we can't look at it as though it is some kind of abstraction. It's real people's lives and so many people who have made contributions, who have worked hard in school, who have started businesses, who have raised their children here. And as you point out in your family, you have a brother who is a U.S. citizen. So it's—we have a lot of these blended families and I want to do more to make sure that Doca and Dapa and all of the changes that have occurred continue and even expand. I would like to try to do more on behalf of the parents of dreamers who are not necessarily included. But the best way is to get the comprehensive immigration reform in our Congress and try to resolve all of this. UNKNOWN: I'm 26 years. And I have been here since I was one year old. I graduated this summer with a degree in psychology and criminal justice. And unfortunately, when I was 15 years old, both my parents and I we received orders for deportation. And since that day we have lived in fear. Thankfully, because of the production I have some relief, but unfortunately, I can't do the same thing from my parents. Unless the lawsuit again, stop or is dropped, my parents' future isn't secure here in United States. And as a current documented immigrant here in the United States, I stand for me with the 50,000 undocumented transgender immigrants in this country who lack resources to get any legal representation to file within the one-year Deadline for asylum. So my question, Secretary Clinton, is would you lift the one-year deadline for asylum-seekers? CLINTON: Well, I think there's several things about that question that I'd like to answer of. One is I think that people in the immigration system should be represented. And we have made some progress on that, but not enough. And so I am in favor, particularly for young people, to have representation. I'd like everyone to have it. But if we have to, you know, try to prioritize, I would like young people, I would like people from vulnerable populations, who would otherwise not have the support that they need. And I don't think there's anything magic about the one-year. I think that as part of comprehensive reform, we need to look at how we make our entire system more humane. I also—I'm very worried about detention and detention facilities for people who are vulnerable, and four children, that I think we could do a better job if we kept detention to people who have a record of violence, illegal behavior and that we have a different approach toward people who are not in that category. And I don't think we should put, you know, children and vulnerable people into big detention facilities because I think they are at risk. I think that their physical and mental health are at risk. So, these are issues that we should go as far as we can to get the resources to provide support and particularly representation and change some of our detention processes within the kind of discretion that I think the president has exercised with his executive orders. But it's also clear as the president has said many times a lot of these issues can only be resolved once and for all if we have changes in the law. So, I want to protect people. I want more humane treatment. No matter how the law currently is written or how it's enforced. And to put the resources behind doing that and then continue to fight for comprehensive reform. Thank you. Wanda UNKNOWN: Thank you, Secretary Clinton for being here and hearing our story and welcome to Nevada. CLINTON: Thank you. UNKNOWN: I arrived to the United States when I was seven months old. Nevada is the only place I call home. And I grew up here. I went to school here. I graduate in University of Nevada [inaudible] with two degrees here, education as you've mentioned earlier is one of our strong points as dreamers. And because of it, I'm looking at pursuing a law degree. But, again, the system of immigration messes up my family. [inaudible] in our family. I come from a mixed status family. Meaning my sister is a U.S. citizen who petitioned from my father to change the legal status, and he became a legal permanent resident. When we planned to do the same for my mother, unfortunately, she faces the three tenure bar. Because of it, it was either make the decision to have her either separate our family or keep our family together. And a strong message in the immigration community is keeping our families together, and that is the path what we took. CLINTON: Right. UNKNOWN: Unfortunately, she continues to be undocumented. I have—and what the president executive action, she will qualify for [inaudible], thankfully, but unfortunately with the lawsuit we—it's another obstacle in the way. CLINTON: Wanda could you explain for people who might not know what the three and 10 rule is because it causes a lot of these issues. UNKNOWN: Of course. For example, my mother and I, we entered—the term—legal term enter by infection but we use the term the illegally. My father in his case entered with a work permit. So, he entered legally. And because of it, we faced a 3 to 10 year bar because we way we entered to our journey. We took a different way compared to my father. So because of it, we face 3-10 year bar, we would have to leave our country. We tried to do it the right way undocumented community. But we had to leave the country for 3 to 10 years as a pardon for entering illegally into the country. CLINTON: Well, I think your example illustrates the difficulties of these rules that are applied to everybody under every circumstance without looking at the underlying situation. And you have a sister who is a citizen. You have a father who is now a legal permanent resident. You came here at seven months and you have done extremely well with your education, and you're obviously a very committed young person. And your mother, who kept the family going as moms do would have to leave for the 3 to 10-year period in order to be able to petition for reentry and therefore be determined as legal. That's why I have promoted, ever since, you know, we've been having this debate, going back to when I was in the senate, a comprehensive immigration reform program, similar to what the Senate passed on a bipartisan basis, where the people who have been here and people who have as your family has, you know, contributed and worked hard, you would have, you know, pay a fine. You'd probably, you know, we'd want you to learn English which is not a problem before anybody around this table. And we would, you know, want you to, you know, get in line to get a path to citizenship but you'd be no longer at risk of being deported and you would not have to leave the country for 3 to 10 years in order to be able to try to come back in. So, I think there are—there's agreement among the people who supported the bipartisan bill in the Senate even though—I guess some of them are paying a political price for it right now, nevertheless, it was the right thing that they may get it, it is still the right thing. Because we have gained so much from people who—like your families have come here and work hard and made a contribution. So, thank you for explaining that and it shows how difficult it is in so many families to be able to figure out what to do. And Juan, you have an interesting story because you are a one of those small businessmen. You know, I said the other day I wan to be the president for small business because that's where most jobs created and that's where I think the real engine of economic recovery and growth comes from. So, why don't you tell us what you've been doing? UNKNOWN: My name is Juan Salazar. I'm 22 years old. I came here when I was seven when I was young. I grew up here. This is all I know, the place I called home. And I'm undocumented. I struggled when I get—it hit me when I got out of high school. It was hard to find a job. In high school, I found my friends were getting these jobs or getting their drivers license becoming more independent. You know, I got left behind. But—fortunately, thanks to DACA, I was able to get a work permit and I'll tell you—and I could tell us pick from all of us undocumented or immigrant. I did not take no opportunity for granted. We don't take an opportunities for granted and I feel like we don't get those a lot. And right away I went to go get my business license and—to—I have my own pool cleaning service. So my own company and me and my [inaudible]. And we started off with three pools. And I got my business license. I went to get certified. And, you know, to promote my name and everything. And you know, two or three years later, now, we have over 50 pools. And, you know, I am growing as to [inaudible]. I make sure that I work hard because when we didn't have anything, when my dad lost his job, when the decision hit, we lost our house. We didn't have work. We had to sell food to pay the phone bills. And, you know, I was the only going way up from there. And we're working hard every day. And, you know, I'm only learning through the struggles that we've been through, and taking it step-by-step. CLINTON: I'm very proud to hear your story. Of course, I mean, let's face it, you can clean pools all year round in Nevada. We have a shorter season where I live. But the fact that, you know, you and your dad really were determined to recover from losing your home, losing his job, and just doing what you had to do to be as successful as possible, is the American story. I mean that is what is so moving to me about what happened to you. UNKNOWN: Yes. And, you know, I felt—at least [inaudible] for once I got the [inaudible]. I got my work's permit, but I cannot say the same thing for my parents because they don't qualify for that type of—because, you know, we are all undocumented. So it was just, you know, I'm happy for the ones who were able to. But now they have a speed bump because... CLINTON: Right. UNKNOWN: ... they've got to slow down now. And I just want to make sure my parents are protected [inaudible] any minute. And I would not wish that on anybody. CLINTON: Right. UNKNOWN: Our family separated that far. So, you know, right here in Nevada, 21 percent of the business are owned by immigrants. So we are making a lot of—we are moving up here and we're making a difference. All we want is work and, you know, provide for our families. And we're very united—me and my family. So... CLINTON: That's great. Well, I think that you put an important statistic, which is nationally, not just in Nevada, so many of the new small businesses are started by immigrants. And that's something we should be celebrating, not trying to prevent or breakup, because of status differences. And also on the fact that you're so worried about your parents. I mean I will certainly try to do everything I can to, you know, avoid family breakup, avoid the kind of terrible experience that too many families have already gone through, because they were split up. And half of their family, or the breadwinner in their family, you know, picked up and gone one day. So that's just—it's not smart and it's not right. Do you want to share your story? UNKNOWN: My name is [inaudible]. I am 16 years old. I'm a junior and went to high school. It's either medical minor program. I arrived in this country at the age of two. And since then, I thank the dedication of my parents. I have been able to succeed in school. I have... CLINTON: Yes. UNKNOWN: Currently, as a junior, I continue and start to look towards my future. But once I began to look at what I have in my future, there is not a lot open. I mean, yes, think that guy could go to school, but afterwards, what is there for me? Like, I want to be a doctor. I want to go to Yale. CLINTON: OK. UNKNOWN: But, after Yale, I can't really become a doctor since my lack of [inaudible] CLINTON: well, I think should brag on you. You may be a junior but you have the highest grade point average in the whole class, right? And I think one of your counselors told me it was 4.8. I didn't even know they went that high. So you are exactly the kind of student that every family—that every community should be proud of. And the idea that you want to be a doctor is something we should be encouraging and trying to clear the path so you can go on and do that. Tell me about your family. What happened with the rest of your family? UNKNOWN: My—both of my parents also arrived as undocumented. CLINTON: OK. UNKNOWN: So I —and they were both depending on DACA. My specifically, he bright future to open up his own mechanic shop which he could be currently a mechanic. And with that, he would be able to expand his business. However, since the delay he really can't. CLINTON: Well, I think it's important to, you know, put faces behind the stories. Several of you have mentioned how the lawsuit tried to prevent the implementation of President Obama's executive order has really stopped the plan—stopped plans for new businesses, stopped plans for going to school, or what you're going to do when you graduate just creating more uncertainty. And that is what you are describing with respect to your father. Yes. You know, I think that certainty is really important, predictability, regularization, if you will. People need to know what's going to happen. And it is just unrealistic, and I think, foolish to continue to talk as though we're going to deport 11 million or 12 million people. That is not going to happen. And so, when you accept the fact that is not going to happen... UNKNOWN: No. CLINTON: ... right? I once calculated when I was in the Senate how much money it would cost, how many buses would be required. I mean it's just, you know, it's beyond absurd. That's not going to happen. So then, what we have to do is accept the fact we are a nation of immigrants. It always have been. I think it was Franklin Roosevelt who might have said that we started off as a nation of revolutionaries and immigrants. And that has continued throughout our history. So we have to solve the issues that are around this situation that we are faced with. And the facts are really clear about the contributions, the economic consumer contributions, the paying of taxes contributions, and then the young people who work hard and are looking for a place in society. So I know that you each have had very personal experiences. And now is your chance to maybe say what you think should be done and how it should be done so that we have, you know, a debate that is about the realities, not about, you know, the talking points and the arguments. Esther , would you like to start? UNKNOWN: Well, secretary, I think one of the most important things for us is family unification. As you mentioned, 11 million people could not be deported. However, millions have already been deported. We have here with us Victoria. She's also a dreamer who received DACA. She hasn't seen her mother in four years because they had to go back to Mexico for an emergency. And on the way back, her mother was unfortunately—broke her leg on the journey back to the United States. And Victoria came here alone. So she's been with a guardian for the past four years. And to me, one of the questions is what will happen to those families who've already been separated? Thankfully, I go to bed every night and, you know, I live in the fear that my parents will be deported, but they're still here. CLINTON: Right. UNKNOWN: I can talk to them and I can see them. You know, and I think all of our stories have very complex issues where Juan working and his family's also makes status family all tired of it. You know, we all have siblings which two to three to 10 year bar. Our parents would qualify for adjustment. Unfortunately, that's still in place. So my question is a little bit expanding on several of those issues. CLINTON: Yes. No, I think that reunification should be one of our goals in Comprehensive Immigration Reform because, you know, we have attempted to deal with this challenge for years now and in the absence of actually finally passing Comprehensive Immigration Reform, a lot of families have been broken up. And that's just really so painful for people who live through it, but even for those of us on the outside looking at it to even imagine what that must be like. And that's why I want to do everything we can to defend the president's executive orders because I think they were certainly within his authority. Constitutionally, legally, they were based on precedent that I believe is adequate. And then, still try to go further and deal with some of these other issues, like the reunification of families that were here and that have been split up since the last eight, 10, 12 years. Yes. UNKNOWN: For me, if there's 276,000 undocumented LGBT immigrants here in the United States, around 15 to 50 of them are trans. So as a lesbian woman, I'd like to know how we can protect our trans brothers and sisters from being put into institutions where they don't identify with their gender identity? CLINTON: Well, that's what Rafael was also referring to earlier. And look I think that we have to do more to provide safe environments for vulnerable populations. And that certainly includes the LGBT community, also includes children, and it includes unaccompanied children. There are just a—there are groups of people who I think we deserve a higher level of care, because of the situations that they are finding themselves in. I also think that we have to reform our detention system. I've, you know, I'm not sure a lot of Americans know that a lot of the detention facilities for immigrants are run by private companies and that they have a built in incentive to fill them up, that there is actually a legal requirement that so many beds be filled. So people go out and round up people in order to get paid on a per bed basis. I mean that just makes no sense at all to me. I mean that's not the way we should be running any detention facility. So I think there is a lot we have to do to change what is currently happening and to try to put us on a path toward a better, fairer, or more humane system for everybody. Yes. UNKNOWN: I think our court ability is a major factor. Many undocumented immigrants have been exploited. Personally, my parents were actually exploited. When they were at—to this country, they had to work for $2 an hour. That was actually in 1990. I also think that since many of these—many of our parents have actually, you know, had a work in a little wage jobs in order to, you know, to move up. I think it's also important to raise the minimum wage throughout the country and—because I think people deserve to make a living wage. CLINTON: Yes. No, I agree with that completely. I am very much in favor of raising the minimum wage at the federal level. States and some cities are on their own raising the minimum wage. But I think there needs to be a federal floor. And I believe that the Democrats in the Senate are going to introduce legislation to do just that in the week. So I agree with you. Blanca ? UNKNOWN: Secretary Clinton, I think the biggest thing is, as you mentioned, you were going to keep the executive—if elected president, you plan to keep the executive order. But as a down, you mentioned as well that you are going to push Congress. We look forward—well, personally, and I think all of us at this table look forward to a day where we all become citizens of this country. All of us at the table have knocked doors, phoned banks to get voters out there. And we tell them our stories, because it's so important that they're vote not—it's not only voting for themselves, they are voting for us and the future of this country. CLINTON: Right. UNKNOWN: So if and when elected, do you plan to push Congress as your first initiative, to push for a Comprehensive Immigration Reform? CLINTON: Well, it certainly be among my first initiatives. I can't—sitting here today—predict what will be happening. I know that happened to President Obama when he was elected and found out that we were falling into an economic abyss. And I think he deserves a lot of credit for restabilizing our situation and getting us back on the economic upswing. So but among the priorities that I would be advocating for—in the beginning would be Comprehensive Immigration Reform. And one of the reasons for that, in addition to everything we've discussed is as secretary of state, I saw what happens to countries that established a second-class status for people. They do not feel that they belong, or they have any allegiance to the country in which they live and work because they're never fully accepted. That is a recipe for divisiveness and even for disintegration. And there fore, my view strongly is that we are a nation of immigrants. We have assimilated tens and tens of millions of people over the course of our history. UNKNOWN: Yes. CLINTON: We have 11 million, 12 million people right now who are undocumented. The vast majority of whom have proven that they want to be a citizen of this country and we should put them on that path. And those who say, "Yes, we can do reform, but not a path to citizenship," would be fundamentally undermining what has made America unique—the way we have assimilated people, the way people who come here feel so loyal, the contributions they make. So this is not just in my view the right thing to do for America. If you compare us to other countries that did not take that step, you can see what it's done to them. And I don't want to go there. So I very firmly support a path to citizenship in the context of Comprehensive Immigration Reform. Juan? UNKNOWN: I kind of just want to add a little personal story with what Rafael said. When I graduated high school, I realized I couldn't find any work. And my dad wasn't working as well. And we found a landscaping job, like a labor for a company. And we're actually getting paid $6 an hour where they would work us like excessively. And, you know, I was young. And I was just working really, really hard. It's been to a point where you felt like that you'd be humiliated. I remember we'd been working and that the boss was there. We could not look at him in the eye. We could not look at him, and we could not stop working. We hadn't worked harder. And even if it was lunchtime, you had to be working until he left. And, you know, I was just—there's lots of stories not just like that. There's other stories that we have and I'm through that. It just felt like that and it's really hard. And, you know, me and my dad worked really hard. You know, Timber United —so when he would get home from work, and I would see him limping, I don't like, you know, I don't want this for him which is kind of what motivated me to do something for us. CLINTON: Right. UNKNOWN: And, you know, he's helped me out through all his life and raised me to respect everyone and be honest and, you know, supported me with school. When we didn't have money, I'd still go part-time to see a cent. I don't know how I did it but I was going. And, you know, I just looking out for him. And we can't [inaudible] united so I'm really glad he's like my business partner. CLINTON: I bet he'd say the same thing about you. UNKNOWN: Yes. CLINTON: But, you know, Juan, you make a good point. It's not only about the minimum wage and decent working conditions for people like you and your dad. Often times when I have conversations with people who are fearful about immigration reform, their fears are rooted in the feeling that they're losing jobs that are going to people who are undocumented. And part of that fear has a reality to it is because if people pay you $6 hour, because you're undocumented. Why would they pay somebody who already is a citizen what the minimum wage should be? So my argument is the quicker we can legalize the people who are here, the better the job market will be for everybody because you will not have a group of people who are taken advantage of and you will not have others who feel as though—and to some extent it's true—are losing jobs because this group that is being taken advantage of is paid so much less and treated so much worse. So my argument to people who worry about Comprehensive Immigration Reform and the effect on their jobs, it's just the opposite. The sooner we can get to legalization, the better the job market will be for everybody. Then, employers will not be able to violate the laws—the Wage and Hour Laws for example, because they're not dealing with a workforce that is scared to say anything, or even scared to look at the boss when he shows up on the work site. So this is about everybody, not just about you and your dad. UNKNOWN: Yes, of course. CLINTON: Yes. UNKNOWN: I'll tell you one more question. CLINTON: OK. UNKNOWN: I just wanted to say, what do you plan—well, I know here in Nevada and this county our education—we keep on like lowering the education. A lot of kids aren't graduating. And I feel like we need to reach out to these kids and... CLINTON: Right. UNKNOWN: ... show them that school is very important and so is higher education. A lot of kids don't even—they qualify for college—there's not an—maybe we need to figure out some other way. I think a lot of the reason is because of funding. CLINTON: Yes. UNKNOWN: They can't afford it and they feel discouraged and they just go on... CLINTON: Right. UNKNOWN: ... and decide not to go to school. CLINTON: Right. Well, look I think that that's a big part of what we have to do to make sure that out economy is competitive and also to make sure that every young person has a chance to continue their education whether it's a community college or college or a job training kind of program that will give them a good start. And you make a really strong point because it's so expensive to continue your education that too many kids are feeling—and their parents are feeling it's just beyond their reach. So that's why I support President Obama's proposal for free community college which at least get you started and I'd like to look to see how we get the debt under control and give people a chance to, you know, not be burdened by debt which makes it really hard for them to start a business or to continue their education. So this is going to be a big part of, you know, my education policy as I go forward in the campaign because you're 100 percent right. Too many young people today feel like, you know, it's just out of their reach or they graduate with some much debt they feel like they are paralyzed. They don't know what to do. They can't buy a house, they can't get married, they can't start a business because the have so much in student debt. And, you know, then, in Iowa and in New Hampshire, you know, the average student in Iowa graduates with about $30,000 worth of debt, and then, the average student in New Hampshire, about $32,000 worth of debt. They're at the higher end. Nevada is still at the lower end of debt. But, you know, you also have a lot of people who don't have that much in assets and income. So it's all, you know, relative to what they can afford. So we have to do more on that. And I want to put in a big plug before we give you the last word about Rancho because I learned today that this school uses Title I funds to pay for the A.P. exam fee. This is, you know, this sounds a little archane but I want to emphasize how important this is because when you look at high school education, making it possible for more students to have access to advanced placement courses really ups the level of education. It gives kids a leg up if they go on to college because they may have some credit before they ever get there. But too many kids in the past and still across our country don't take the test because—I don't know what it does today—$80? UNKNOWN: $85. CLINTON: $85. That's a lot of money if, you know, you're making minimum wage or less. So I want to—I really want to—I don't—I hope that the Rancho administrators are still here because—good. The principal is still here. I want to give them a big shout out for using Title I funding to make sure every kid who wants to take an A.P. course gets to and gets to take the exam. So I'm sure, you're going to do some of that next year. [crosstalk] Currently. You have them tomorrow? UNKNOWN: I had my Chemistry test Monday and I have my Statistics and English Language next Monday. CLINTON: So you're taking three A.P. exams as a junior? UNKNOWN: Yes. CLINTON: Wow. Wow. OK. UNKNOWN: [inaudible] to education topic? CLINTON: Sure. UNKNOWN: Once DACA was brought open—established, it opened doors for many like myself to school to try Yale, Harvard, et cetera. But oftentimes, the journey ends there and I was wondering if or what was your position or what will you offer in order for us to be able to continue on to our education and become or raised doctors, so on and so forth. CLINTON: Well, I think it's very shortsighted of us not to legalize students who graduate from college and can use their skills to make a good life for themselves but also to give back. We have thousands and thousands of foreign students come to our country every year. And they get a great education in our colleges and universities. And then, a lot of them stay. Well, I want you to be a doctor if that's what you want to be. I mean you've come up to our system, you've worked hard, and then you've done exceptionally well. So I think this is the particular fix in addition to the other fixes we've been talking about. You know, I read an article recently about a group of young, undocumented men who were really interested in technology and they entered a contest against kids from the best schools and companies and they won. And so, you have four kids who beat the best of the best. And they couldn't do anything because they were undocumented. And I am sitting there thinking, "What is wrong with this picture?" We are in a global competition and I intend for us to win it. And I'm about to let anybody who can make a contribution to our economy and our society get thrown away. So from my perspective we need to fix that, we need to remove the fear, and we need to make sure that we give every child a chance to do the best that he or she can. And if that means going to Yale and becoming a doctor I want that to happen. So, as you can tell, I could be here all day because, you know, six exceptional young people, we have some proud parents and grandparents and teachers here. But let me and where I started thanking Rancho for having me here, thanking each of you for being willing and brave enough to sit here and talk about your own lives. I want to reiterate my strong support for the president's executive actions because he had to act in the face of inaction that was not on the merits but politically motivated for partisan reasons which I think is not the way we should be solving our problems in our country, in our Congress or anywhere else. And I'm so pleased that the congresswoman is here because I know she's a champion for a lot of the issues that we are talking about today. And I want to get back to good old-fashioned problem-solving. And this is one of the problems we have to solve together. So I pledge to you I will do everything I possibly can to make this an issue in the campaign but more importantly, when I'm president, to put it on the top of my priority list. So if you'll stay here, we're going to do a picture. And maybe we could get the Rancho—the principal and others to come up and join us, you know. Yes. Let's get the administrators who invited us all here to come and stand. If you'll just stand with us we will get a picture with everybody. Congresswoman, why don't you join us?  [crosstalk] Write me a memo about what I need to do differently. Yes, you want to come around? UNKNOWN: What if everybody stand up? CLINTON: OK. We stand up? That's good. Excellent. UNKNOWN: OK. Come closer. CLINTON: OK. Come closer. Give me that. And Juan, you're going to give me that. That's great.  [crosstalk] UNKNOWN: Say cheese. CLINTON: Yes, look at Barb and then we'll look at all the very proud parents with their cameras. UNKNOWN: OK. CLINTON: OK. So we'll look over here. OK, got some cameras over here. It's like when you're on the red carpet and they yell at you. "Look here". OK. Thank you. Great. You want to come around? OK. Good to meet you, Chris. UNKNOWN: Good to meet you. Thank you so much. CLINTON: I'm so happy I could. Thank you so much. UNKNOWN: I'm very grateful. CLINTON: Oh my goodness. Oh my goodness. Is your name Barbara ? UNKNOWN: Barb. Everyone call her Barb. CLINTON: Barb. UNKNOWN: Thank you. And just so you know, my mom write to you like everywhere. [inaudible] friendly. CLINTON: Good. UNKNOWN: [inaudible] go away and you should call it Hillary until [inaudible] Hillary is... CLINTON: I love that. UNKNOWN: Right. It's nice. CLINTON: Here you go.  [crosstalk]
CLINTON: Thank you. Wow. Thank you. I am thrilled to be here with all of you. And Sarah, that was excellent. I thank you so much. And I hope you'll get to know Sarah and spend time with her and help her as she works so hard between now and February 1st. And Dean and Gary, thank you for welcoming us to your beautiful home; what a delight it is to be here with you. [applause] Somebody asked me the other day, well, you know, you're going to these events, where you're taking time to actually talk and listen to people, is that really what you're going to do? And I said, well, yes, it is because not only do I learn a lot but I also feel like it's the best way to make those connections that will not only give me a firm foundation in the caucus here in Iowa or in a primary in New Hampshire—because it really is about people-to-people connections if we're really talking about what we want to do—but it will also give me the kind of information I need to be an even better president. And I just had another example about that. You may know that Gary's a radiologist and right before we came in, we were talking about his work. He's an expert in breast cancer. And I asked him about the mammography recommendations that's at least the women in the room I'm sure have seen over the last several years. And he was giving me some really important insight into the commission that made those recommendations and his expert opinion about them. And I'm so grateful to you for that because it's the kind of discussion that you can't have unless you have an opportunity to actually talk and listen with people. I want to thank all of you for coming. I am delighted to have this chance to talk with you. I think what we're going to do is I'll say a few words about the campaign and what I want to achieve. And then we'll have a chance to talk individually and I'll be able to hear from each and every one of you. I have been incredibly impressed over the last several years at how hard the American people have worked to pull ourselves out of the Great Recession. People have made a lot of sacrifice. People have lost jobs. They lost houses. They lost the chance to finish or go on with their education. And they did everything that they could think of to do to get back on their feet. And I'm so relieved that, as I travel around the country and talk with people, there is a sense that we are on our feet. We're not running yet but we are on our feet. And we can see the changes that are happening in people's lives and put them in a context as to where we go from here now as a country. I'm very grateful to President Obama for the hard decisions he made when he inherited the mess that he inherited when he became president in 2009. [applause] And I know that he and I and everyone who was in his administration realizes that, unless the American family and the American worker is strong, everything we want to see happen for our country is going to be much more difficult. And so I come to this campaign committed to being a champion for Americans and American families. That's what my work has been throughout my entire adult life, starting with my first job out of law school when I went to work for the Children's Defense Fund, all the way through to the work that I did as secretary of state promoting women's rights, promoting the rights of people who would otherwise be marginalized or left on the sidelines. And I know that, although we have to—it's still hard to imagine exactly how we're going to get to the point where people are not just getting by but getting ahead again and staying ahead because, look, the deck is still stacked in favor of those at the top. We know that. And so we have to be especially focused on how we're going to bring about the changes that will ignite opportunity for everybody willing to work hard for it again. So when I look at where we are as a nation and where we need to be, I see four big challenges that we have to take on together. And there are going to be fights, because they're—if they were easy, they would already be done. So I will posit that right now. Number one, we have to build the economy of tomorrow, not yesterday. It needs to be innovative. It needs to be sustainable. It needs to be producing good jobs with rising wages. We need to get back into the habit of actually rewarding workers with increases in their paychecks for the increases in productivity and profitability that they have helped to bring about. [applause] You know, Warren Buffett has said it, but so have a lot of other people. There's something wrong when the average American CEO makes 300 times more than the typical American worker or when hedge fund managers themselves make more and pay less in taxes than nurses and truck drivers. In fact, I heard a statistic the other day that really made a big impact on me, that the top 25 hedge fund managers together made more money than all the kindergarten teachers in America. And when you think about value, what it is that's going to get us moving again, I think kindergarten teachers are really important. And so—[laughter and applause]—and we've got to make a claim on becoming the 21st century clean energy superpower. Iowa has really helped us. The RFS, the renewable fuel standard and a lot of the investments that have made here, has been one of the reasons why we have made some real progress but not near enough. And other countries are going to seize that title unless we do what we have to. It's also imperative that we give people the tools through education and job training and skills not just in rhetoric but in reality so that they can make the most out of their own lives. And for me that starts at the very beginning. I have been a child advocate and a child development proponent for my entire adult life because it's what I really care about, what I believe in. And I think we have to start before kindergarten. We have to have universal pre-K but we also have to do more to reach out to families so they know the tools they should use to be their children's first teachers. Now we've got this new granddaughter who is unbelievable. And we were with her this weekend. You know, we go and just stare at her. I mean, that's what—it's really—it's wonderful and silly at the same time. But we also read to her. Here she is, 7.5 months old, we're reading and reading and reading. And I imagine among her first words were—will be, you know, "Enough with the reading," because between her mom and her dad and Bill and I, we're constantly doing that. But we're doing it not only because we love to do it and we love to see her begin to reach her hands out and grab onto the books, we're doing it because we know that it aids her brain development. That has been one of the great discoveries with brain research in the last couple of decades. We increasingly can see what happens when you are literally feeding the brain as well as the body of these infants and then the babies and the toddlers. That will help them be better prepared when they actually end up in kindergarten and it will begin to close the achievement gap because, you know, we're going to do everything we can for our granddaughter. Charlotte will get every opportunity we can possibly imagine. But what kind of country will she grow up in? And what kind of world will she enter? And what will happen to all of the other infants, babies, toddlers and children in our country today? So we have to look at education from the very beginning. Then we have to make sure that we are doing all we can to empower our teachers, to make sure that they have the support of parents so that they can do the job they have been trained to do to help prepare our kids. And then we've got to make sure that college is affordable. And that cannot happen at the rate we're going unless we change the way we fund college education for young people who wish to have that experience. Many of us in this room, I bet, as I did, borrowed money to go to college. But then we were able to pay it back because it wasn't such an overwhelming burden as it has become now. The average student in Iowa graduates with $30,000 in debt and that then makes it very difficult for them to start a business or buy a new home or even get married, as one young man told me not so long ago. So we have to deal with the indebtedness to try to move toward making college as debt-free as possible. I'm 100 percent behind President Obama's proposal for free community college. We've got to try to get that through. And then we've got to try to do everything we can to make college available and affordable to all of our young people. [applause] You know, when you think about our economy today, it is absolutely linked to education. It is also linked to strong families and strong communities. And that's our second challenge, because a lot of families and communities have been under tremendous strain. One of the biggest stresses in anybody's life is health care. I will fight to protect the Affordable Care Act and I will work to make the changes that are required. [applause] We are really now in a different world, 16 million people who didn't have health insurance who now do. We have to do everything we can to make sure that Medicare is as available and protected and affordable as possible. And we have to be sure that where there are changes that can be made we try to find ways to work across the aisle to make them. I don't hear my friends on the other side of the aisle talking as much as they used to about getting rid of the Affordable Care Act. I think the reason is is because there are a lot of people that they may actually be encountering from time to time who have been helped. And we need to make sure to make the argument over and over again, what will you do if you say to people we're going to take away the health care we finally have been able to provide for you? That is just unacceptable. But there are some problems. You know, one of the problems—and I heard about this in Iowa—is what happens when a 26-year old becomes a 27-year old and is no longer eligible to be on his or her parents' policy? That was one of the best changes in the Affordable Care Act. And the fact is that a lot of young people aren't making the income they need yet to be able to afford their own health care. So we have to look out to see what we're going to be able to do to help them. There are two issues that fall into this category that are huge strains on families. And I heard about them first—I heard first in Davenport and I heard about it all the way across the state until I got to Council Bluffs. One is the drug epidemic—meth, pills in Iowa and then I got to New Hampshire. And at my very first coffee shop meeting I heard about the heroin epidemic in New Hampshire. In the past year I've been told reliably we had more people die of drug overdoses in America than automobile accidents for the first time in our history. This is tearing families apart but it is below the surface. People aren't talking about it because it's something that is hard to deal with. I also heard a lot about untreated mental health problems. And so many communities, so many states turning their backs on people with mental health problems. Facilities are being closed. Even though we now require there to be treatment in the Affordable Care Act, there's not enough available treatment. Not enough resources. The other day, I was in California at an event. And I just said what I said. I said, you know, mental health is not being treated. We claim we're now going to be able to help people with their health care problems, but if we don't help with mental health, we're leaving out a huge number of people. And a young woman came up to me and asked me a question. She said, "Did you know that we're having all these suicides in my high school?" I said, "No, I did not know that before I came." She goes, "Well, we've had four young people kill themselves in the last months." Then I was in New York at an event this past way. Said the same thing that I said to you, and then I was visiting with people. And a woman come up—came up to me and she goes, "Thank you for mentioning mental health. We have gone in the last six months to four funerals of friends of my children who have killed themselves." I have to tell you, when I started running, when I started thinking about this campaign, I did not believe I would be standing in your living room talking about the drug abuse problem, the mental health problem and the suicide problem. But I am now convinced I have to talk about it. I have to do everything I can in this campaign to raise it... [applause] ...to end the stigma against talking about it. And we also have a challenge that affects everything we do, and that is to fix our dysfunctional political system. And that—that underlies everything that we can possibly hope to get done. I'm very committed to meeting with anybody, going to have any conversation, to try to find common ground. But we also have to stand our ground. And we have to try to figure out how we're going to get people to work with us for the betterment of our country, the betterment of people who need a good positive support system, whether it be health care of aid for college, or anything else. We also have to address the unaccountable dark money in politics. I think the supreme court made a grave error with its Citizens United decision. And I will do everything I can do to appoint supreme court justices who will protect the right to vote, and not the right of billionaires to buy elections. [applause] And, you know, I've been consulting with a lot of legal experts. and some of them think there may be a way to get legislation through that will enable us to regulate this kind of use of money in our political system which is so corruptive and corrosive. But others agree with former Justice John Paul Stevens, who recently wrote a book in which he said it's going to take a constitutional amendment. I will work for that if that's the only way to fix this problem, because we cannot continue with the kind of assault on our democracy, on voting rights, and on the opportunity for us to know where the money is coming from that influences our political system. Now, for us , we have challenges around the world. I was coming through the—the garage, there's a TV that Dean and Gary have, and it was talking about ISIS in Iraq. We have threats that we know of. That we can begin to try to figure out how best to address. It's not just dictators. Also disease, climate change, which—I think global warming is a threat to us. But we have to be confident and strong in understanding that there are many ways to approach the problems that America will be confronting in the world. And we must do so in cooperation with our friends, our allies, our fellow democracies around the world. I am convinced that the 21st century can once again be a century in which the United States leads and helps to set the values and the standards. But we have to have an agreement, first of all, foremost, with our own country and in our own Congress about how to do that. I was outraged, and said at the time, that when a group of Republican senators sent a letter to the ayatollah of Iran, in a—essentially criticizing the actions of the president of the United States—I don't care what party you are. We have one president, and we should stand behind that president when he's trying to work out very difficult problems. [applause] So, I know there are a lot of hard choices ahead of us. I wrote a book called "Hard Choices." There is it. There is it. I'll sign that for you. But I think we're more than up to it. You know, I am a confident optimist about where America's future lies. That doesn't mean I'm not aware of how difficult it is. I'm going into this race with my eyes wide open about how hard it is to be the president of the United States. I have a little experience about that. And I have to tell you, I find it, you know, very reassuring because I do have that experience to know what's possible and how best to proceed. but I also know that we are living in an incredibly complicated time in American history. It is not a time for easy answers or glib answers or one-liners or applause lines. Those are all great. That's part of campaigning. But at the end of the day, we need a president who has both the experience and the understanding to deal with the complexity of the problems that we face. And I appreciate what both Dean and Sarah said about the experiences that I've been privileged to have during the last decades. I really believe that I can go into that office on the very first day and begin to do what is required. So I look forward to visiting with each and every one of you. I look forward to working with you, not only as we move toward the caucuses. I would be honored to have your support on February 1st. And then I will need your help as we move toward the general election because I don't want this election to be about me. I want to it to be about us and the agenda that we want to set for our country. You know, when I campaigned so hard against then-Senator Obama, I was, you know, working as hard as I could. He was working as hard as he could. And at the end of the day, he won. And then I went to work to make sure he got elected our president. And I was so relieved and happy when that finally happened. The Sunday after the election, Bill and I went for a walk in an area that Sarah would know, a big kind of nature preserve near where we both live, and we just wanted to let down because we'd been working so hard to elect then-President-Elect Obama. So we're wandering through the woods, and Bill's phone rings, which is sort of a miracle since we have terrible cell coverage there. And he pulled it out of his pocket and it was the president-elect. And he said, "You know, I'd like to talk to you and Hillary." And Bill said, "Well, we're kind of in the middle of a forest. Can we get home and call you back?" And so we did. And when he called back—when Bill called back, he talked to the president-elect and then I talked to him. And he said to me, "I want you to come see me in Chicago." And I said, "Sure. When?" He goes, "As soon as you can get here." And I said, "Well, OK." So the following Thursday, I went to Chicago and he asked me if I would serve as secretary of state. And I said, "You know, Mr. President-elect, I, you know, I really want to go back to the Senate. I'm very flattered, but there are a lot of other people who could do that." "No," he said. "I know what I want and I want you to do this." I said, "Well, you know, Mr. President-elect, I really want to go back to the Senate and that's where I think I can best work with you and best serve you." He goes, "Look," he said, "I don't want to hear from you again until you say yes." [laughter] So, you know, I told him "no," you know, again later. And he just said, "Don't—don't call me until you say yes." And I did tell my husband, I said, "He's so persistent. I've told him no twice and he keeps saying, you know, I'm waiting for you to say yes." And Bill said, "Yeah, well, I asked you to marry me twice before you said yes." [laughter] So I guess there's a connection there. So then I—I stayed up that night and I—I thought, you know, supposed I'd been honored to win, and I had wanted this incredibly talented American to be in my cabinet and I'd asked him, I'd want him to say yes. And I thought, you know, what's what I have to do. So I called him and I said, "You know, President-elect, I would be honored to serve in your cabinet." And we immediately got starting to work. A few months later, on my very first trip as secretary of state, I went to Asia. And I went in part because everybody I called, all of the leaders in the countries that I spoke with, were saying, "You know, we just don't know whether the United States cares about us anymore; nobody's been paying any attention to us; you know, we're—we're kind of feeling like we're not important to you anymore." I said, "Well, you are, and the president feels that way; I feel that way; I will come see you." So I went out. And one of the countries that I went to was Indonesia, in part because it's a very important country, but also President Obama had a personal connection with it. And my idea was not only to talk to the leaders, but to talk to the people, what's called public diplomacy. So that as you were—as I was out there talking to presidents and prime ministers and others, I would also find ways of trying to connect to to tell people, "Look, the United States really does care about the world we're trying to create together, and that's part of my message from our new president." So I went on a—I agreed to go on a show in Jakarta, which was their morning show. And it was like a combination of MTV and a reality show and all that. I had no idea what I was getting myself into. And so I go onto the set and people are jumping and they're singing and they're dancing. And it's called "The Awesome Show." So I'm on "The Awesome Show," and I'm talking a little bit to the interviewer. And then they ask people if they have any questions. And somebody in the audience says, "I want to ask you, we saw you campaigned very hard against President Obama; he campaigned very hard against you. He won. You lost. And then he asked you to be his secretary of state. Why?" And I realized, you know, in a lot of these new democracies and other places of course, you run against somebody and you lose, you could get exiled or imprisoned, even killed; not asked to be secretary of state. And so this was a very legitimate question. And I thought, "I have to answer this in a very, you know, serious way that maybe they can understand in our democracy, you know, we do try to close ranks after we have hard elections," at least that's what we should be doing. I said, "Well, you're right. We campaigned hard. He won. I lost. I then campaigned to get him elected. He asked me to be secretary of state, and I said yes for the same reason: We both love our country." And at the end of the day to me... [applause] ...that's what elections are supposed to be about. We can disagree and we will. We'll have all kinds of arguments, even, about the best way to do things. But we should be coming from a place of love—of loving our country and of respecting one another. And we have to rebuild this feeling in our country again. We have too much work to be done. We have too many people who deserve a better shot at a future for themselves and their families. I want to be their champion. And with your help, I will get up every single day doing the best I can to make sure that the country we love is the country we deserve to have. Thank you all. [applause]
Well first let me thank all of you in particular our round table participants for being with us today and thanks to Bike Tech for welcoming us to this amazing facility. I'm delighted to have this chance to talk more about small businesses. But I want to begin with what's happening more broadly with America's economy and America's families. Because I've always believed fundamentally that when our families are strong, our country is strong.And we've come back from very tough economic times. I don't need to tell anybody here that. Our economy and our country are in much better shape today, and in large measure because families worked so hard. They took extra jobs, they skipped vacations, they scrimped and they postponed going to college they saved and made it work. But the deck is still stacked for those at the top. People aren't getting a fair shake. Something is wrong when CEOs earn more than 300 times than what the typical American worker earns and when hedge fund managers pay a lower tax rate than a truck drivers or nurses.I'm running for president because everyday Americans and their families need a champion and I want to be that champion. I want families to do more than just get by — I want you to get ahead and stay ahead. I want to make the words "middle class" mean something again.Now, small businesses like Bike Tech and the ones you'll here about today have to be at the heart of that effort — creating jobs, driving growth, and giving millions of Americans the chance to live up to their God-given potential. Now, I did not learn this from politics — I learned it from my father who was a small business man. He had a very small business, printing drapery fabrics and then went out and sold them. My mother, my brothers and I and occasionally a few day laborers would help out with the actual printing process. That's what put food on the table and gave us a solid middle class home.Today, small businesses all over our country have worked their way back from the perfect storm of the crisis, when sales and credit, together, dried up at the same time. Businesses are finally starting to sort out how they can grow again, add jobs, and planning for the future.But the deck is stacked here as well. Ask any small business owner, as I have, and they'll tell you: It is wrong that it is so easy for big corporations to get a break but so hard for small businesses even to get a loan. It shouldn't take longer to start a business in America than it does in Canada and France! But that is the fact.I want to be a small business president. A president who does make it easier to start and run a small business in this country, so it seems less like a gamble and more like an opportunity. We have to level the playing field for our small businesses.First, we need to cut the unnecessary red tape that costs small businesses time and money and keeps new entrepreneurs out. We should scrub federal regulations to find responsible ways to make life easier for small businesses, and we should offer new incentives to state and local governments to do the same, because that's where many of the obstacles still lie.Second, we need to simplify tax filing and provide targeted credits and deductions for small businesses, not just the big corporations that can afford the lawyers and lobbyists to find every single loophole.Third, we'll use technology to expand access for small businesses into new markets, whether it's across town, across the state, or across the world. That's what I did in partnership with eBay in Upstate New York when I was a Senator. We started a public-private partnership to help small businesses that had never sold beyond their local community reach customers very far away.Fourth, and I want to emphasize this today, I will fight to level the playing field for small businesses so they can get the financing they need to build and hire… including women and minority entrepreneurs who face extra barriers. And this morning when I was reading the Des Moines Register — big head line: REPORT: Iowa Ranks Last for Women Owned Business. This could not be a more timely article for our discussion today and although it says Iowa has made some progress it says Iowa has seen the lowest growth in the most businesses owned by women from 1997 to 2015 and women owned companies have the least economic clout in Iowa and all the states and the District of Columbia. So this is a very important issue for our whole county but I think it is especially important for our friends here in Iowa because access to credit can be as important to growing a small business as it is for the big ones.And you shouldn't have to be a Fortune 500 company to get a loan. For many small businesses these loans have always come from community banks with deep local ties. But today those same local banks are being squeezed by regulations that don't make sense for their size and mission. Like endless examinations and paperwork designed for banks that measure their assets in the many billions. And when it gets harder for small banks to do their jobs it gets harder for small businesses to get their loans. We can ease these burdens for community banks without harming consumers — and without easing up one bit on the Wall Street. We should not apply the same restrictions on community banks as those needed by the big banks.Let's be clear about this: It's not the big banks that need relief from Washington — it's small banks and small businesses. We should be doing more to rein in risky behavior on Wall Street and "Too Big to Fail," banks not less. I fully support the regulations in Dodd-Frank on the big banks but we should pass common sense community banking reform right now, however, the republicans in the congress insist on using this issue to give relief to community banks as a Trojan Horse for rolling back the protections for consumers and rolling back the rules for the big banks — as we're seeing right now in what Republicans are introducing — we should call it what it is: a cynical attempt to game the system for those at the top.Our goal should be helping community banks serve their neighbors and customers the way they always have. To make it easier to give our responsible loans to responsible small businesses so they can do what they do best, create jobs and help families get ahead.So I'm eager to hear the ideas from everyone around the table. And I see some elected officials in the audience and am eager to hear your ideas. What are the obstacles you've faced and how can you overcome them? What more can we do to help small businesses grow?
Wow, what a great way to begin and to all of you especially Mary Carmen and LaKeisha thank you for speaking on behalf of providers and parents. We're going to hear from everybody as we go through our event today. I want to thank everyone at New Horizons for welcoming us to this facility. And to all my friends at SEIU as well. We're here today to talk about childcare. But its important to understand that when we talk about childcare we're talking about the economy, we're talking about families, we're talking about fairness, we're talking about all of the values that we believe are necessary to raise healthy successful productive children in society today. I want to say just a few words about what's happening with our economy and more broadly about America's families. Because I think when our families are strong America is strong. And if we don't have strong families its really hard for us to be the kind of strong nation that sets the table for our children to do better.We've come back from really tough economic times. The great recession just really knocked people to the ground. People lost their jobs, they lost their homes they postponed doing things like going to college, they had to keep working if they had a job even if they were at or beyond retirement. It really took a lot out of everybody. And we are in much better shape today in large measure because families made the sacrifice and worked really hard despite the odds. They took extra jobs like some of you they skipped what were really necessities but they figured out how to make them not as urgent a need, like not driving the car as much or not buying all the food that the family required. So everybody made it work.But the deck is still stacked for those at the top. Something is wrong when top CEOs earn 300 times more than what the average worker earns and I heard a statistic the other day that was kind of related to what we're talking about today, if you take the salaries, the compensation, of the top 25 hedge fund managers in America, those 25 men make more than all the kindergarten teachers in the country put together. Now I happen to think that kindergarten teachers and child care providers and child development specialists are really important because they are the people that are helping to get our kids off to a good start working with families. And I'm running for President because I think everyday Americans need a champion, a champion that gets up every single day and goes to work and goes to bat and does everything I can to help families just get by which is what you were talking about. I want you to get ahead and stay ahead. I want to make the words "middle class" mean something again.Now, when we think about strong families being the backbone of our country, we have to recognize that our economy is different and our families are different. I was born in Chicago and the families of today are not exactly the same as the family I was born into. Most families need two incomes or two jobs if there is only one parent to make ends meet. And 40 percent of moms, just like LaKeisha, are now the sole or the primary breadwinners in their household. So that's a big different from the way it was when I and others here were growing up. Yet we haven't adjusted our economy or our government programs to take those differences into account. You know I can remember very well when I was a young lawyer before I had my daughter in my law firm where I worked in Arkansas, around 3 o'clock I'd see all the women who worked there sort of whispering into their phones and I didn't know why, but it was just like clockwork, well they were trying to make sure their kids got home safely because their kids were walking home or getting off the bus and going home waiting for mom to get home. And it wasn't accepted back then that you could be a good worker and a devoted parent at the same time, especially for women. But that kind of juggling act is what most of us do all the time now and therefore we have to adjust how we support families so that you can be the best you can be and how we support small businesses like so many child care providers so you can make a living while you do what you love.So we know that with Moms and Dads squeezing every minute out of a 24-hour day and with you Mary Carmen saying you work 17 hours, it's hard to even find time to breathe. And many can't count on anybody being there to help you because everyone you know is working hard and trying to make ends meet.So finding high quality, affordable, flexible childcare is more important than ever. But it's also harder than ever. Federal and state funding for childcare has not kept up with changing times and rising demand. So it's no surprise that out-of-pocket childcare costs for families have soared by nearly 25 percent over the past decade. And now the Republican budget that is being worked on by the Congress would cut funding even more. Making it so much more difficult. America cannot turn its back on our children and our working parents. Family values are economic values. I'm going to be putting forth plans to fix this. We should do it now. And Republicans should either get on board or get out of the way.Because it's now time for us to face reality. Our families need new solutions today, they need real help not promises. And I'm very clear about what I think needs to be done but I want to hear from all of you because what I'm doing in traveling around the country is taking ideas I have, some of which I have been developing for many years, but hearing from people on the front lines, whether its immigration or small business or today child care.First, to bring down out-of-control family costs, we need to make investments in childcare a national priority. What President Obama has proposed is a good start. I'll look for responsible ways to go even further, whether it's providing tax cuts to new parents or grants to states targeted for infants and toddlers. Whatever its going to take to give both LaKeisha and the providers more opportunities. And you know its embarrassing, I traveled to 112 countries as your Secretary of State, there are only 9 countries left in the world that have no form of paid family leave, and we are one of them. And the other ones are tiny countries, countries without many resources. Every other country has something that says, we think it's really important that moms bond with their newborn babies, we think its important that a dad can have some time, we think it's important that children can take care of their parents as those parents maybe are ill or failing. So we've got to have better systems in place with more support and we have to focus on quality so that all our kids have access to the best possible care. And many of you know how hard that is because you have two people helping you take care of 16 children. There are a lot of places where there would be one person trying to take care of 16 children. We have to reducing overcrowding and increasing training and most importantly we have to increase wages. Because you expect to make a living doing the most important job in the world if you have to sacrifice your own family. That doesn't make any sense to me at all.So to all the childcare workers here today, I want you to know that the service and care you provide strengthens our economy, it strengthens families and helps prepare children. You should be valued for that, respected for that, and you should be paid for that. Now I am a new Grandmother and it's really wonderful but just being around my new 7 1/2 month old granddaughter just reinforces what I believe, which is when when we short-change childcare workers, we short-change kids and short-change Americans' future. It makes it harder to retain the best staff. It makes it harder to keep up those high standards. So we have to stand firmly together and united on behalf of your right to organize, your right to bargain collectively, your right to fighting together for the higher wages that reflect the value of your work. There is nothing more important to the family or to the support of the family, which you are, than caring for our youngest children.That's why I so respect the vital work that SEIU is doing, under the leadership of President Mary Kay Henry, is so vital. I think it is absolutely essential.And I want to say something else about it, when people talk to me about the need to improve our educations system, I agree, because I want every child to have the best possible education. But education starts at birth. Education starts when that little baby comes into the world. In fact we now know, because of brain research, that about 80% of the brain is actually developed by the age of 3 and 4. If we don't take care of our babies we are short changing them on their brain development and then when we get to kindergarten no matter how hard they try, no matter how much their mom says do your best, do your homework, no matter how hard their teacher works they're going to be at a disadvantage. That's wrong, it isn't right that a child like my grandchild will have all of these opportunities because we're reading and we're talking and we're singing but we're not working 17 hour days and we're not trying to get by on $5100 after the expenses are paid. So yea, we're going to make sure that Charlotte has every chance in the world but I want every baby, everyone your babies and every baby you take care of to have exactly the same chances.Ultimately, this is, for me, about how we work together to give every child the chance to live up to his or her God-given potential. You see it in their faces when they are put in your arms from the very first minute. You want to keep that light in their eyes, you want to make sure they have every opportunity to fulfill that God-given potential. And I'm here because I want to help you and the parents you serve unlock that potential, when we unlock the full potential of every American, we can unlock the full potential and prosperity of America.So for me, this is as important an as anything else that I'm going to talk about in my campaign for president. Thank you.
Well, this is so exciting, to be here with all of you and to be here for such an important cause, to make sure that the Democratic Party and particularly the Democratic Women's Council recruits and trains and fields more women for public office right here in South Carolina. There are a lot of longtime friends here; I won't try to mention everybody, but I do want to thank Susan and the entire board for DWC. And I want to thank Gilda, who I think has been in the state legislature since '92, started in elementary school and worked her way up. Former Governor Jim Hodges, we're delighted he is here, thank you. A national Democratic chair, a state Democratic chair, of course Don and Carroll Fowler, so happy to see them. Your candidate for the Senate last time, Joyce Dikerson, thank you Joyce.I was thinking on the way down here that I first came to South Carolina as a young lawyer working for the Children's Defense Fund, started by your own South Carolina native Marian Wright Edelman from Bennettsville. I came back many times going to Renaissance weekend, going to Hilton Head, then going to Charleston. Made a lot of friends, had a lot of good times, and am thrilled to be back, and I'm back because I want to support you.You know, the theme of this day of events is how to build a party and how to build a party that really respects and includes women and gives women in this state a chance to not only be at the table but at the head of the table. Carrying with them their Democratic experiences and their life experiences. And you're right, I am running to live again at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue. But I don't want to be there all by myself—I want Democrats elected from the local to the county to the state to the federal level, once again making the case that when Democrats win, Americans win.I want to say just a few words about what's happening to America's families and what's happening with our economy. Because I've always believed fundamentally that when families are strong, America is strong.And we've come through some really tough economic times. I looked at the statistics and South Carolina has pulled itself up and other places have as well. American families have made a lot of sacrifices. People lost jobs, people lost homes, people had to put college on the back burner, retirement on the back burner. But everybody just kept going. It took a lot of determination, and across America we're beginning to see the results of all that hard work. And I will say that there does seem to be a pattern, Democratic presidents, and there are two in particular that I'm thinking of, over the last 35 years, seem to inherit a mess of problems. Have you noticed that? So then they have to dig us out of the ditches they find themselves in and put us back on the right track, and of course I'm talking about Bill Clinton and Barrack Obama, but of course presidents don't do it alone—they do it with the American people. It's a partnership.And today we are standing again, but we're not yet running. And we face a choice: Are we going to hand over our country once again to people and policies that crashed our economy before and that will shred all the progress we've made?[Crowd shouts NO!]Well that's obviously the right answer, but that's what this campaign is going to be about. Because we're going to have to stand up to the people who want to keep the deck stacked in favor of those at the top. We are going to fight to make sure that the success of our country is shared across the economy and that more families have the chance to get ahead and not just to get by but to stay moving forward with the kind of confidence and optimism that has always marked the best times in America.It's time to make the words "middle class" mean something again. They should represent a solemn promise that anyone willing to work hard can earn a decent living and a better life, not just get by paycheck to paycheck.That's the middle class I grew up in. My dad was a small businessman, and when I say small, it was small. He ran a small drapery printing business. And he literally had a print plant with big long tables that had silk screens, and sometimes my mother, my brothers, and I would help to pour the paint in and take the squeegee and then we'd walk down the table, print the fabrics, and then he'd go out and sell them. And it was a good decent middle-class life that he provided to my brothers and me. And I am so grateful, and there was never in my mind in fact that's what so many of us believed when we were growing up. The future seemed so unlimited—of course we had to fix a lot of things in the country, starting with civil rights and human rights, but the opportunity ladder always was held out there.I just came from Kiki's Chicken and Waffles, which I highly recommend, and I was meeting with a group of African American businesswomen, and they were telling me what they needed to keep growing and build an even better future, it sounded so much like the conversation I remember around my dinner table. That's what links us together past all the other differences that sometimes divide us.Being middle class in America should mean you feel in control of your own financial destiny.It should mean you have a little more, so you can worry a little less.It should mean that you can invest in your future and the future of your children, putting aside some for education, putting aside some for retirement.You should be able to go to sleep at night knowing that everything you've worked for won't be lost in a flash because of decisions that are made or failed to be made in Washington.So therefore, I want to be a president who makes corporations live up to the basic guarantee that when workers help produce record profits, those workers should get a real share of the rewards instead of it all going to those at the top.And you know the statistic. Something is wrong when top CEOs earn 300 times more than a typical American worker, or here is my latest least favorite statistic, the 25 biggest hedge fund managers earn more than all the kindergarten teachers in America...combined. What does that say about our values and the importance of preparing our children through education to make it in a very competitive global economy?Today, too many politicians who want to return to the same failed top-down economics are mouthing the words "middle class." But this is something you have to believe in and something you have to be ready to fight for. If those words are going to have meaning again, they've got to be backed up by real solutions, not empty rhetoric. And those solutions have to speak to the ways that the economy has changed.Today, 40 percent of mothers are the sole or primary breadwinners in their household. And more Americans are working multiple jobs just to make ends meet. Parents are rushing home from work to get their kids home from school and maybe get them off to practice or rehearsal. They are squeezing every minute out of a 24-hour day with barely enough time to breathe, let alone relax.I remember when I was a practicing lawyer back in Little Rock, and around 3 o'clock every afternoon all of the women who worked in the firm were hunched over their phones kind of whispering into them and at first I didn't know what was going on, and then I realized they were checking to see if their children got home safely.Many people today can't count on relatives to pitch in because so many families now are scattered across the country. Now I happen to be extremely lucky because my amazing 8-month-old granddaughter lives near me, so I get to see her a lot.But nobody expects everything to come easy, that's not part of life, we know that, but it shouldn't be quite so hard to get ahead and stay ahead.So I do believe that everyday Americans and their families need a champion. A champion who will fight for them every single day. Not for some Americans but for all Americans. And I want to be that champion. I want to get up every single day going to work for you, standing up for you, making a difference for you.Now, take the issue of equal pay. I don't think I'm letting you in on a secret when I say, too many women still earn less than men on the job. And women of color often make even less. And then there's the so called, motherhood penalty, with many women taking a pay cut when they have children. All this lost money adds up. For many families, we're talking about thousands of dollars every year. That's money that could go for rent or groceries or a new car or into the college fund. Now we could fix this. If Republicans would get on board, we in fact could fix this today but they won't.One Republican candidate dismissed equal pay as "a bogus issue." Another said Congress was "wasting time" worrying about it. One even said that efforts to guarantee fair pay reminded him of the Soviet Union.And to that I say what century are they living in?But thankfully the American people know the truth. And the truth is that when any parent is short-changed, the entire family is short-changed. And when families are short-changed, America is short-changed. And therefore this is not a women's issue this is a family issue and an American economic issue.And here's what we should do instead to close the wage gap. First, we should pass the Paycheck Fairness Act, which gives women the legal tools we need to fight discrimination at work.I introduced this legislation in the Senate back in 2005 and kept sponsoring it again and again. Well it's time to get this done, once and for all.Second, we should promote pay transparency across our economy to ensure women have the information they need to negotiate fairly. You can't stand up for equal pay if you don't know whether you're paid equally. You remember the Lilly Ledbetter case, she didn't know for the longest that she wasn't being paid the same as her male coworkers doing the same jobs. Postings for new jobs or promotions should come with salary ranges. Large companies should report on how fairly, or not, they're compensating workers, male or female.And we should applaud those businesses and communities that are leading the way with best practices and real accountability. I think transparency when it comes to pay is our friend. The more we can bring it out from under the table to put it on top, the more information we can have to advocate for ourselves and advocate for each other.Third, we need to raise wages for the lowest paid jobs in America -- which are, they are disproportionately held by women, especially women of color—we need to make it easier for more women to enter higher paying fields like science and engineering and technology. But I want to say something that a lot of people may not know even in this room full of activist and well informed democrats.In most states today, waitresses, bartenders, hairstylists, and others who rely on tips are paid even lower than minimum wage.Some are paid as little as two dollars and thirteen cents an hour. And they are also more likely to face exploitation, wage theft, and sexual harassment. Think about somebody you may know, think about the mom trying to succeed at work and give her kids the support they need with a job that pays her $2.13 an hour. And forces her to put up with some pretty awful behavior by clients or customers or bosses to try to get those tips to at least push it up to the federal minimum wage level.And finally, we need workplace policies like paid leave and flexible scheduling that allow parents to take care of their obligations at home without sacrificing pay at work.Now, it's no secret that on equal pay and so many other issues, we're up against some pretty powerful forces, political and economic, that will do say and spend whatever it takes to advance a very different vision for America. I'm here to tell you I'm not afraid to take them on.You know I've spent my adult life going to bat for children, families, and our country.And I do know how hard this job I'm seeking is. I have seen it up close and personal. You're not going to catch me wondering what it's like. Instead I'm spending my time planning for what I will do for you when I get there.All our Presidents come into office looking so vigorous. Think about what they look like on inauguration day and then we watch them they grow grayer and grayer, and by the time they leave they're as white as the building they live in.Well, let me tell you, I may not be the youngest candidate in this race. But I have one big advantage. I've been coloring my hair for years. So you're not going to see me turn white in the White House. And you're also not going to see me shrink from a fight. I think by now people know I don't quit.So I hope you'll join me. I hope you'll help me build this campaign, make it your own. Tell your friends to go to hillaryclinton.com, sign up to volunteer.This election is not about me. It's about us. And it has to be about what we will do together to restore faith, confidence and optimism in the future and the country we love.I want to end with a story, some of you might remember we had a pretty vigorous campaign in 2008.I vaguely recall. And both President Obama and I worked really hard and he won and I lost and then I went to work to make sure he'd win. And I was so relieved, I was just so relieved when finally November 2008 came around and he did.And then a few days after the election, my husband and I were taking a walk in a little forested area near where we live, and his phone went off, and he answered it, and it was the president-elect, who said, "Bill, I need to talk to you, and I want to talk to Hillary." And Bill said, "Well, we're in the middle of a forest, but as soon as we get home we'll call." So we did, and the president-elect talked to Bill about the ideas he had and the cabinet and economic problems that he was all of a sudden being confronted with that he hadn't even been told about to the extent they were. So Bill talked to him and then hands me the phone, and the president-elect says, "I want you to come to Chicago to meet with me." And so I said, "Certainly, when would you like me to come?" And he says, "As soon as you can come." And I thought he wanted to talk to me about what I would do in the Senate to try to support what he was going to be championing as president.So I went a few days later, go into this big office building and sit down with the president-elect, and he says to me, "I want you to be my secretary of state." And I said "Well, Mr. President-elect, I'm honored, I'm flattered, but there are so many other people," and I gave him names of people that I thought would have been great secretaries of state. And he says, "No, no, I have to spend all my time dealing with this economy, it's worse than we were even told, and yet we have all these problems around the world and I need somebody who I can send out there to go anywhere to talk to anyone, and I want it to be you." I said, "Well, I can't tell you how moved I am, but I have to go back to the Senate." And he said, "Now, I don't want to hear from you until you say yes." So I go back to the airport and get on the plane. I go back to New York and I'm thinking, you know, the right thing for me is to stay in the Senate, the people of New York had had a rough time. I became senator, and eight months later we had 9/11, and so I had spent most of my first term trying to help people and rebuild our city and protect it and everything and I just thought I needed to go back.So I called the president-elect and said, "You know, again I cannot tell you how honored I am, and I will support you in any way I can, but I need to go back to the Senate, and so I must say no, Mr. President elect." He said, "I told you I didn't want to hear from you until you're ready to say yes." And so I say to my husband, you know, "Can you believe this? I mean the president-elect has asked me to be secretary of state, I told him no twice, and he says he's not going to give up until I say yes." Bill says, "Well as I remember it, I asked you to marry me twice before you said yes. He said you might stop and think that maybe there is a pattern here." So I stayed up all night ,and I thought, you know, suppose it had been reversed, and I had been fortunate enough to win, and I wanted somebody to be in my cabinet that I knew I could rely on and I had asked the president-elect. I would have wanted him to say yes, because the country was facing some very serious decisions. So I called him back the next day, and I said "OK, Mr. President, I am honored, I will be your secretary of state," and from that moment on we began to talk and to work together.Fast forward to my first trip I go to Asia in February 2009, and I go because when I started calling presidents, prime ministers, and foreign ministers. They all said we didn't know what to expect because nobody's been paying a lot of attention to us. And I said well that is going to change, because the president and I see Asia as a very important priority, and I will come, so I was on my way.One of the countries I was going to was Indonesia, and I agreed to do both the private meetings with the leaders and press conferences, the kinds of things you see on TV, and to do a lot of what's called public diplomacy, where we would reach out to people, and we would basically say, we care about you we're back we want to work with you. Let's try to find ways that we can be partners and send a different message.So I agreed to go on this show in Jakarta called the "Awesome Show." And it was the early morning show, and it was unlike anything I've even seen on our TV, and you know you see anything on our TV these days, people are jumping up and down, they're singing, they're dancing, and I'm sitting here thinking, "Oh my gosh, I hope they don't ask me to sing or dance". But thankfully they didn't. They did an interview, and then they said the audience, "Does anybody have any questions?" So somebody raised a hand and was called on. So this person said, "I want to ask you something. We followed your election." I found that people overseas followed our election, in some ways closer than some Americans, really followed it, and so this questioner said, "We followed your election, it was really a hard, long-fought election" because as you know our elections last forever compared to most other countries which have elections. And he says, "We saw you and President Obama going at it, he was saying bad things about you, you were saying back things about him, and then all of a sudden you end up as his secretary of state? How does that work?" And I thought, you know this is a really serious question, because in lots of places you run against somebody, you can be exiled, imprisoned, or killed, not made Secretary of State, so I thought that there was a moment here that if I could rev my brain up that maybe could reach particularly young people because Indonesia is a relatively young democracy. So I said, "You're right, we ran a very hard campaign against each other. He won, I lost, and then I went to work for him because he and I shared many of the same positions about what should be done in the next presidency and then he won and then he asked me to be Secretary of State for the same reason, we both love our country."And no matter how hard this election or any election becomes we should remember that at the core we can have disagreements, and we will, we have different governing philosophies, we have different views about what works, what the evidence shows works about economic policies, that's all fair game, but we should show more respect toward each other and we should remember why we're doing this, because we love our country, and we want it to be the country of hope and potential for our children and our grandchildren that many of us saw come into being over the last decades so as I run for President we're going to have some very difficult challenges. We'll have disagreements, we'll have debates, but I want you to know that I will be remembering what I think should be at the core of every political campaign, how we treat one another, and how we care for this gift we've been given, the United States of America. Thank you very much.
Wow! Thank you so very much. I cannot tell you how personally honored I am to be here with all of you, to be at this historic institution. Let me start by thanking President Rudley, everyone at Texas Southern university. It's a great treat to be here, to have heard just briefly from Dr. Rudley and others about the incredible programs and progress and the fact that you graduated more than 1,000 young people into the world not so many days ago. This institution is the living legacy, the absolute embodiment of Heman Marion Sweatt and the long struggle for civil rights. and for me, to be surrounded by so many here in Houston, Texas, and indeed from across our country, who were part of that movement is especially touching. I am delighted to be here with my friend, Sheila Jackson Lee, she has been a tireless champion for the people of the 18th District and state and the country.I have to tell you though I thought she would tell you about the most important news coming out of Congress. And that is she is finally a member of the grandmother's club. And as a member of now a little over eight months, it is the best club you will ever be a member of, Sheila. I have to tell you I was excited to come here and to talk about an issue that is important to Barbara Jordan and should be important to all of us. But to do so in front of Dr. Freeman is a little daunting. I mean anyone who knows what this man has meant, not only to Barbara Jordan but to so many who have studied here who have been in anyway effected by his brilliant teaching, elocution and delivery would be a little daunted too. I noticed that both Dr. Rudley and Dr. Sheila both got off before Dr. Freeman came up.I also want to say my thoughts and prayers are with all the families in Houston and across Texas affected by the recent terrible flooding. And I am confident that this community will embrace them. I remember very well coming here after Katrina with my husband, and in fact we decided to invite along a young Senator from Illinois by the name of Barack Obama, along and with Sheila and other leaders in the community. We toured the facilities that Houston had provided to those who were fleeing that horrific storm. And I saw how people had opened their hearts and their homes. This is a city that knows how to pull together, and I'm confident you'll do so again on behalf of those who are suffering from this latest terrible disaster.And it is also a special moment to be here, knowing that Barbara Jordan was succeeded by Mickey Leland and the 18th District was so well represented for so long, and I am delighted to be here with Alison and to remember the pioneering work he did on behalf of children and the poor and hungry. So many issues that he was the champion of. And I want to thank Rosemary McGowan and all the friends and loved ones of Barbara Jordan here today. This is such a particular honor for me because the award is in memory of one of my true personal heroes—a woman who taught me and so many others the meaning of courage and determination in the pursuit of justice.I first met Barbara Jordan when I was a young attorney and had been given a position working for the House of Representatives Judiciary Committee investigating Richard Nixon, and it was such a profound moment in American history. And there wasn't anyone who was a more effective eloquent inquisitor than Barbara Jordan.As a 26-year-old fresh out of law school, as some of you are perhaps now having graduated from the Thurgood Marshall School here at TSU, I was riveted and not a little intimidated to tell you the truth by this unstoppable Congresswoman from Texas. I got to talk with her, which was thrilling, I got to hand her papers, which was equally exciting, but mostly I got to watch and listen to her.At a time of shaken confidence, she stirred the entire nation with her words.Remember what she said: "My faith in the Constitution is whole, it is complete; it is total."It was that passion and moral clarity that took Barbara Jordan from the TSU and the halls of Texas legislature all the ways to the halls of Congress. The first woman and the first African American ever elected to represent Texas in the House of Representatives.And she defended and continued the civil rights legacy of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and her friend and mentor President Lyndon Johnson—and in particular she was a staunch advocate for the Voting Rights Act, which had helped make it possible for her to be elected.In 1975, in the face of fierce opposition, Barbara Jordan led the fight to extend the special protections of the Voting Rights Act to many more Americans, including Hispanic Americans, Native Americans, and Asian Americans as well.And like every woman who has run for national office in this country in the last four decades, I stand here on the shoulders of Barbara Jordan and so does our entire country.And boy do we miss her. We miss her courage, we also miss her humor, she was funny and most of all her irresistible voice.I remember talking to her and Ann Richards one time. And between the two of them, forget trying to get a word in at all. And they were telling me about how they would love to go to the University of Texas women's basketball games. Right, and Barbara would be there by that time in her wheelchair, and Ann would be holding court right next to her. And Barbara would be yelling directions like she was, you know, the coach. "Why are you doing that? Jump higher! That's not a pass!" You know, all of those kinds of sideline comments. And so Ann was telling me this, with Barbara right there and I finally turned to her and said, "Barbara, encourage these young women, don't just criticize them." And Barbara turned around and said, "When they deserve it, I will."We sure could use her irresistible voice. I wish we could hear that voice one more time.Hear her express the outrage we feel about the fact that 40 years after Barbara Jordan fought to extend the Voting Rights Act, its heart has been ripped out.And I wish we could hear her speak up for the student who has to wait for hours for his or her right to vote. For the grandmother who's turned away from the polls because her driver's license expired. For the father who's done his time and paid his debt to society but still hasn't gotten his rights back.Now we know, unfortunately, Barbara isn't here to speak up for them and so many others. But we are. And we have a responsibility to say clearly and directly what's really going on in our country—because what is happening is a sweeping effort to disempower and disenfranchise people of color, poor people, and young people from one end of our country to the other.Because since the Supreme Court eviscerated a key provision of the Voting Rights Act in 2013, many of the states that previously faced special scrutiny because of a history of racial discrimination have proposed and passed new laws that make it harder than ever to vote.North Carolina passed a bill that went after pretty much anything that makes voting more convenient or more accessible. Early voting. Same-day registration. The ability of county election officials to even extend voting hours to accommodate long lines.Now what possible reason could there be to end pre-registration for 16- and 17-year-olds and eliminate voter outreach in high schools?We should be doing everything we can to get our young people more engaged in democracy, not less.In fact I would say it is a cruel irony—but no coincidence—that Millennials, the most diverse, tolerant, and inclusive generation in American history, are now facing so much exclusion.And we need look no further than right here in Texas. You all know this far better than I, but if you want to vote in this state, you can use a concealed weapon permit as a valid form of identification—but a valid student ID isn't good enough?Now, Krystal Watson found out the hard way. She grew up in Louisiana but came to Marshall, Texas, to attend Wiley College. Krystal takes her responsibilities as a citizen so seriously that not only did she register to vote in Texas, where she was living and would be for a number of years, she even became a deputy registrar to help other people vote as well. But this past year, when she showed up at her local polling place with a Wiley College ID, she was turned away.Experts estimate that hundreds of thousands of registered voters in Texas may face similar situations.And while high-profile state laws like those in Texas and North Carolina get most of the attention, many of the worst offenses against the right to vote actually happen below the radar. Like when authorities shift poll locations and election dates. Or scrap language assistance for non-English speakers—something Barbara Jordan fought so hard for.Without the pre-clearance provisions of the Voting Rights Act, no one outside the local community is likely to ever hear about these abuses, let alone have a chance to challenge them and end them.It's not a surprise for you to hear that studies and everyday experiences confirm that minority voters are more likely than white voters to wait in long lines at the polls. They are also far more likely to vote in polling places with insufficient numbers of voting machines.In South Carolina, for example, there's supposed to be one machine for every 250 voters. But in minority areas, that rule is just often overlooked. In Richland Country, nearly 90 percent of the precincts failed to meet the standard required by law in 2012. Instead of 250 voters per machine, in one precinct it was more than 430 voters per machine. Not surprisingly, people trying to cast a ballot there faced massive delays.Now there are many fair-minded, well-intentioned election officials and state legislators all over this country. But this kind of disparity that I just mentioned does not happen by accident.Now some of you may have heard me or my husband say one of our favorite sayings from Arkansas, of course I learned it from him. "You find a turtle on a fence post, it did not get there on its own." Well, all of these problems with voting did not just happen by accident. And it is just wrong, it's wrong to try to prevent, undermine, inhibit Americans' rights to vote. Its counter to the values we share. And at a time when so many Americans have lost trust in our political system, it's the opposite of what we should be doing in our country.This is the greatest, longest-lasting democracy in the history of the world. We should be clearing the way for more people to vote, not putting up every roadblock anyone can imagine.Yet unfortunately today, there are people who offer themselves to be leaders whose actions have undercut this fundamental American principle.Here in Texas, former Governor Rick Perry signed a law that a federal court said was actually written with the purpose of discriminating against minority voters. He applauded when the Voting Rights Act was gutted, and said the lost protections were "outdated and unnecessary."But Governor Perry is hardly alone in his crusade against voting rights.In Wisconsin, Governor Scott Walker cut back early voting and signed legislation that would make it harder for college students to vote.In New Jersey, Governor Christie vetoed legislation to extend early voting.And in Florida, when Jeb Bush was governor, state authorities conducted a deeply flawed purge of voters before the presidential election in 2000.Thankfully in 2004 a plan to purge even more voters was headed off.So today, Republicans are systematically and deliberately trying to stop millions of American citizens from voting. What part of democracy are they afraid of?I believe every citizen has the right to vote. And I believe we should do everything we can to make it easier for every citizen to vote.I call on Republicans at all levels of government with all manner of ambition to stop fear mongering about a phantom epidemic of election fraud and start explaining why they're so scared of letting citizens have their say.Yes, this is about democracy. But it's also about dignity. About the ability to stand up and say, yes, I am a citizen. I am an American. My voice counts. And no matter where you come from or what you look like or how much money you have, that means something. In fact, it means a lot.I learned those lessons right here in Texas, registering voters in south Texas down in the valley in 1972.Some of the people I met were, understandably, a little wary of a girl from Chicago who didn't speak a word of Spanish. But they wanted to vote. They were citizens. They knew they had a right to be heard. They wanted to exercise all the rights and responsibilities that citizenship conveys. That's what should matter because when those rights are denied to anyone, we're all the worse for it. It doesn't just hold back the aspirations of individual citizens. It holds back our entire country.That's why, as a Senator, I championed a bill called the Count Every Vote Act. If it had become law, it would have made Election Day a federal holiday and mandated early voting opportunities. Deceiving voters, including by sending flyers into minority neighborhoods with false voting times and places, would have become a federal crime. And many Americans with criminal convictions who had paid their debts to society would have finally gotten their voting rights back.Well today, with the damage to the Voting Rights Act so severe, the need for action is even more urgent.First, Congress should move quickly to pass legislation to repair that damage and restore the full protections that American voters need and deserve.I was in the Senate in 2006 when we voted 98 to zero to reauthorize the Voting Rights Act after an exhaustive review process.There had been more than 20 hearings in the House and Senate Judiciary Committees. Testimony from expert witnesses. Investigative reports documenting continuing discrimination in covered jurisdictions. There were more than 15,000 pages of legislative record. Now that is how the system is supposed to work. You gather the evidence, you weigh it and you decide. And we did 98 to nothing. We put principle ahead of politics. That is what Congress needs to do again.Second, we should implement the recommendations of the bipartisan presidential commission to improve voting. That commission was chaired by President Obama's campaign lawyer and by Governor Mitt Romney campaign's lawyer. And they actually agreed. And they set forth common sense reforms, including expanding early, absentee, and mail voting. Providing online voter registration. Establishing the principle that no one should ever have to wait more than 30 minutes to cast your vote.Third, we should set a standard across our country of at least 20 days of early in-person voting everywhere—including opportunities for weekend and evening voting. If families coming out of church on Sunday before an election are inspired to go vote, they should be free to do just that. And we know that early in-person voting will reduce those long lines and give more citizens the chance to participate, especially those who have work or family obligations that make it difficult to get to the polls on Election Day.It's not just convenient—it's also more secure, more reliable, and more affordable than absentee voting. So let's get this done.And I believe we should go even further to strengthen voting rights in America. So today I am calling for universal, automatic voter registration. Every citizen, every state in the Union. Everyone, every young man or young woman should be automatically registered to vote when they turn 18—unless they actively choose to opt out. But I believe this would have a profound impact on our elections and our democracy. Between a quarter and a third of all eligible Americans remain unregistered and therefore unable to vote.And we should modernize our entire approach to registration. The current system is a relic from an earlier age. It relies on a blizzard of paper records and it's full of errors.We can do better. We can make sure that registration rolls are secure, up to date, and complete. When you move, your registration should move with you. If you are an eligible vote and want to be registered, you should be a registered voter—period.Now, Oregon is already leading the way modernizing its system, and the rest of the country should follow. The technology is there. States have a lot of the data already. It's just a matter of syncing and streamlining.Now, all of these reforms, from expanded early voting to modernized registration, are common sense ways to strengthen our democracy. But I'll be candid here, none of them will come easily.It's going to take leadership at many levels.Now more than ever, we need our citizens to actually get out and vote for people who want to hear what is on their minds.We need more activists working to expose abuses, educate Americans about their rights, and hold authorities accountable for protecting them. Some of the worst provisions in recent laws have been blocked or delayed by tireless advocates raising the alarm and filing legal challenges. But they can't do it alone.We need more grassroots mobilization efforts like the Moral Monday movement in North Carolina to build momentum for reform.We need more Justices on the Supreme Court who will protect every citizen's right to vote, I mean the principle underlying our Constitution, which we had to fight for a long time to make apply to everybody, one person, one vote and we need a Supreme Court that cares more about protecting the right to vote of a person than the right to buy and election of a corporation.But of course, you know what we really need? We need more elected leaders from Houston to Austin to Washington who will follow in the footsteps of Barbara Jordan and fight for the rights and opportunities of everyday Americans, not just those at the top of the ladder. And we need to remember that progress is built on common ground, not scorched earth.You know, when I traveled around the world as your Secretary of State, one of the most frequent questions I was asked was, "How could you and President Obama work together after you fought so hard in that campaign?"People were genuinely amazed, which I suppose is understandable, considering that in many places, when you lose an election or you oppose someone who wins you could get imprisoned or exiled—even killed—not hired as Secretary of State.And it's true, I was surprised when the President asked me to serve. But he made that offer, and I accepted it, because we both love our country.So my friends, here at this historic institution let us remember that America was built by people who knew that our common interest was more important than our self-interest. They were fearless in pursuit of a stronger, freer, and fairer nation.As Barbara Jordan famously reminded us, when the Constitution was first written, it left most of us here out. But generations of Americans fought and marched and organized and prayed to expand the circle of freedom and opportunity. They never gave up and never backed down.And nearly a century ago on this very day, after years of struggle, Congress finally passed the 19th amendment to give women the right to vote in the United States.So that is, that is the story of progress, courageous men and women, expanding rights, not restricting them. And today we refuse, we refuse to allow our country or this generation of leaders to slow or reverse America's long march toward a more perfect union.We owe it to our children and grandchildren to fight just as hard as those who came before us did. To march just as far. To organize just as well. To speak out just as loudly. And to vote, every chance we get for the kind of future we want.That's what Barbara Jordan would do. That's what we should do in honor of her.Thank you, and may God bless you.
Thank you! Oh, thank you all! Thank you so very, very much.It is wonderful to be here with all of you.To be in New York with my family, with so many friends, including many New Yorkers who gave me the honor of serving them in the Senate for eight years.To be right across the water from the headquarters of the United Nations, where I represented our country many times.To be here in this beautiful park dedicated to Franklin Roosevelt's enduring vision of America, the nation we want to be.And in a place... with absolutely no ceilings.You know, President Roosevelt's Four Freedoms are a testament to our nation's unmatched aspirations and a reminder of our unfinished work at home and abroad. His legacy lifted up a nation and inspired presidents who followed. One is the man I served as Secretary of State, Barack Obama, and another is my husband, Bill Clinton.Two Democrats guided by the — Oh, that will make him so happy. They were and are two Democrats guided by the fundamental American belief that real and lasting prosperity must be built by all and shared by all.President Roosevelt called on every American to do his or her part, and every American answered. He said there's no mystery about what it takes to build a strong and prosperous America: "Equality of opportunity... Jobs for those who can work... Security for those who need it... The ending of special privilege for the few... The preservation of civil liberties for all... a wider and constantly rising standard of living."That still sounds good to me.It's America's basic bargain. If you do your part you ought to be able to get ahead. And when everybody does their part, America gets ahead too.That bargain inspired generations of families, including my own.It's what kept my grandfather going to work in the same Scranton lace mill every day for 50 years.It's what led my father to believe that if he scrimped and saved, his small business printing drapery fabric in Chicago could provide us with a middle-class life. And it did.When President Clinton honored the bargain, we had the longest peacetime expansion in history, a balanced budget, and the first time in decades we all grew together, with the bottom 20 percent of workers increasing their incomes by the same percentage as the top 5 percent.When President Obama honored the bargain, we pulled back from the brink of Depression, saved the auto industry, provided health care to 16 million working people, and replaced the jobs we lost faster than after a financial crash.But, it's not 1941, or 1993, or even 2009. We face new challenges in our economy and our democracy.We're still working our way back from a crisis that happened because time-tested values were replaced by false promises.Instead of an economy built by every American, for every American, we were told that if we let those at the top pay lower taxes and bend the rules, their success would trickle down to everyone else.What happened?Well, instead of a balanced budget with surpluses that could have eventually paid off our national debt, the Republicans twice cut taxes for the wealthiest, borrowed money from other countries to pay for two wars, and family incomes dropped. You know where we ended up.Except it wasn't the end.As we have since our founding, Americans made a new beginning.You worked extra shifts, took second jobs, postponed home repairs... you figured out how to make it work. And now people are beginning to think about their future again — going to college, starting a business, buying a house, finally being able to put away something for retirement.So we're standing again. But, we all know we're not yet running the way America should.You see corporations making record profits, with CEOs making record pay, but your paychecks have barely budged.While many of you are working multiple jobs to make ends meet, you see the top 25 hedge fund managers making more than all of America's kindergarten teachers combined. And, often paying a lower tax rate.So, you have to wonder: "When does my hard work pay off? When does my family get ahead?" "When?"I say now.Prosperity can't be just for CEOs and hedge fund managers.Democracy can't be just for billionaires and corporations.Prosperity and democracy are part of your basic bargain too.You brought our country back.Now it's time — your time to secure the gains and move ahead.And, you know what?America can't succeed unless you succeed.That is why I am running for President of the United States.Here, on Roosevelt Island, I believe we have a continuing rendezvous with destiny. Each American and the country we cherish.I'm running to make our economy work for you and for every American.For the successful and the struggling.For the innovators and inventors.For those breaking barriers in technology and discovering cures for diseases.For the factory workers and food servers who stand on their feet all day.For the nurses who work the night shift.For the truckers who drive for hours and the farmers who feed us.For the veterans who served our country.For the small business owners who took a risk.For everyone who's ever been knocked down, but refused to be knocked out.I'm not running for some Americans, but for all Americans.Our country's challenges didn't begin with the Great Recession and they won't end with the recovery.For decades, Americans have been buffeted by powerful currents.Advances in technology and the rise of global trade have created whole new areas of economic activity and opened new markets for our exports, but they have also displaced jobs and undercut wages for millions of Americans.The financial industry and many multi-national corporations have created huge wealth for a few by focusing too much on short-term profit and too little on long-term value... too much on complex trading schemes and stock buybacks, too little on investments in new businesses, jobs, and fair compensation.Our political system is so paralyzed by gridlock and dysfunction that most Americans have lost confidence that anything can actually get done. And they've lost trust in the ability of both government and Big Business to change course.Now, we can blame historic forces beyond our control for some of this, but the choices we've made as a nation, leaders and citizens alike, have also played a big role.Our next President must work with Congress and every other willing partner across our entire country. And I will do just that — to turn the tide so these currents start working for us more than against us.At our best, that's what Americans do. We're problem solvers, not deniers. We don't hide from change, we harness it.But we can't do that if we go back to the top-down economic policies that failed us before.Americans have come too far to see our progress ripped away.Now, there may be some new voices in the presidential Republican choir, but they're all singing the same old song...A song called "Yesterday."You know the one — all our troubles look as though they're here to stay... and we need a place to hide away... They believe in yesterday.And you're lucky I didn't try singing that, too, I'll tell you!These Republicans trip over themselves promising lower taxes for the wealthy and fewer rules for the biggest corporations without regard for how that will make income inequality even worse.We've heard this tune before. And we know how it turns out.Ask many of these candidates about climate change, one of the defining threats of our time, and they'll say: "I'm not a scientist." Well, then, why don't they start listening to those who are?They pledge to wipe out tough rules on Wall Street, rather than rein in the banks that are still too risky, courting future failures. In a case that can only be considered mass amnesia.They want to take away health insurance from more than 16 million Americans without offering any credible alternative.They shame and blame women, rather than respect our right to make our own reproductive health decisions.They want to put immigrants, who work hard and pay taxes, at risk of deportation.And they turn their backs on gay people who love each other.Fundamentally, they reject what it takes to build an inclusive economy. It takes an inclusive society. What I once called "a village" that has a place for everyone.Now, my values and a lifetime of experiences have given me a different vision for America.I believe that success isn't measured by how much the wealthiest Americans have, but by how many children climb out of poverty...How many start-ups and small businesses open and thrive...How many young people go to college without drowning in debt...How many people find a good job...How many families get ahead and stay ahead.I didn't learn this from politics. I learned it from my own family.My mother taught me that everybody needs a chance and a champion. She knew what it was like not to have either one.Her own parents abandoned her, and by 14 she was out on her own, working as a housemaid. Years later, when I was old enough to understand, I asked what kept her going.You know what her answer was? Something very simple: Kindness from someone who believed she mattered.The 1st grade teacher who saw she had nothing to eat at lunch and, without embarrassing her, brought extra food to share.The woman whose house she cleaned letting her go to high school so long as her work got done. That was a bargain she leapt to accept.And, because some people believed in her, she believed in me.That's why I believe with all my heart in America and in the potential of every American.To meet every challenge.To be resilient... no matter what the world throws at you.To solve the toughest problems.I believe we can do all these things because I've seen it happen.As a young girl, I signed up at my Methodist Church to babysit the children of Mexican farmworkers, while their parents worked in the fields on the weekends. And later, as a law student, I advocated for Congress to require better working and living conditions for farm workers whose children deserved better opportunities.My first job out of law school was for the Children's Defense Fund. I walked door-to-door to find out how many children with disabilities couldn't go to school, and to help build the case for a law guaranteeing them access to education.As a leader of the Legal Services Corporation, I defended the right of poor people to have a lawyer. And saw lives changed because an abusive marriage ended or an illegal eviction stopped.In Arkansas, I supervised law students who represented clients in courts and prisons, organized scholarships for single parents going to college, led efforts for better schools and health care, and personally knew the people whose lives were improved.As Senator, I had the honor of representing brave firefighters, police officers, EMTs, construction workers, and volunteers who ran toward danger on 9/11 and stayed there, becoming sick themselves.It took years of effort, but Congress finally approved the health care they needed.There are so many faces and stories that I carry with me of people who gave their best and then needed help themselves.Just weeks ago, I met another person like that, a single mom juggling a job and classes at community college, while raising three kids.She doesn't expect anything to come easy. But she did ask me: What more can be done so it isn't quite so hard for families like hers?I want to be her champion and your champion.If you'll give me the chance, I'll wage and win Four Fights for you.The first is to make the economy work for everyday Americans, not just those at the top.To make the middle class mean something again, with rising incomes and broader horizons. And to give the poor a chance to work their way into it.The middle class needs more growth and more fairness. Growth and fairness go together. For lasting prosperity, you can't have one without the other.Is this possible in today's world?I believe it is or I wouldn't be standing here.Do I think it will be easy? Of course not.But, here's the good news: There are allies for change everywhere who know we can't stand by while inequality increases, wages stagnate, and the promise of America dims. We should welcome the support of all Americans who want to go forward together with us.There are public officials who know Americans need a better deal.Business leaders who want higher pay for employees, equal pay for women and no discrimination against the LGBT community either.There are leaders of finance who want less short-term trading and more long-term investing.There are union leaders who are investing their own pension funds in putting people to work to build tomorrow's economy. We need everyone to come to the table and work with us.In the coming weeks, I'll propose specific policies to:Reward businesses who invest in long term value rather than the quick buck — because that leads to higher growth for the economy, higher wages for workers, and yes, bigger profits, everybody will have a better time.I will rewrite the tax code so it rewards hard work and investments here at home, not quick trades or stashing profits overseas.I will give new incentives to companies that give their employees a fair share of the profits their hard work earns.We will unleash a new generation of entrepreneurs and small business owners by providing tax relief, cutting red tape, and making it easier to get a small business loan.We will restore America to the cutting edge of innovation, science, and research by increasing both public and private investments.And we will make America the clean energy superpower of the 21st century.Developing renewable power — wind, solar, advanced biofuels...Building cleaner power plants, smarter electric grids, greener buildings...Using additional fees and royalties from fossil fuel extraction to protect the environment...And ease the transition for distressed communities to a more diverse and sustainable economic future from coal country to Indian country, from small towns in the Mississippi Delta to the Rio Grande Valley to our inner cities, we have to help our fellow Americans.Now, this will create millions of jobs and countless new businesses, and enable America to lead the global fight against climate change.We will also connect workers to their jobs and businesses. Customers will have a better chance to actually get where they need and get what they desire with roads, railways, bridges, airports, ports, and broadband brought up to global standards for the 21st century.We will establish an infrastructure bank and sell bonds to pay for some of these improvements.Now, building an economy for tomorrow also requires investing in our most important asset, our people, beginning with our youngest.That's why I will propose that we make preschool and quality childcare available to every child in America.And I want you to remember this, because to me, this is absolutely the most-compelling argument why we should do this. Research tells us how much early learning in the first five years of life can impact lifelong success. In fact, 80 percent of the brain is developed by age three.One thing I've learned is that talent is universal — you can find it anywhere — but opportunity is not. Too many of our kids never have the chance to learn and thrive as they should and as we need them to.Our country won't be competitive or fair if we don't help more families give their kids the best possible start in life.So let's staff our primary and secondary schools with teachers who are second to none in the world, and receive the respect they deserve for sparking the love of learning in every child.Let's make college affordable and available to all ...and lift the crushing burden of student debt.Let's provide lifelong learning for workers to gain or improve skills the economy requires, setting up many more Americans for success.Now, the second fight is to strengthen America's families, because when our families are strong, America is strong.And today's families face new and unique pressures. Parents need more support and flexibility to do their job at work and at home.I believe you should have the right to earn paid sick days.I believe you should receive your work schedule with enough notice to arrange childcare or take college courses to get ahead.I believe you should look forward to retirement with confidence, not anxiety.That you should have the peace of mind that your health care will be there when you need it, without breaking the bank.I believe we should offer paid family leave so no one has to choose between keeping a paycheck and caring for a new baby or a sick relative. And it is way past time to end the outrage of so many women still earning less than men on the job — and women of color often making even less.This isn't a women's issue. It's a family issue. Just like raising the minimum wage is a family issue. Expanding childcare is a family issue. Declining marriage rates is a family issue. The unequal rates of incarceration is a family issue. Helping more people with an addiction or a mental health problem get help is a family issue.In America, every family should feel like they belong.So we should offer hard-working, law-abiding immigrant families a path to citizenship. Not second-class status.And, we should ban discrimination against LGBT Americans and their families so they can live, learn, marry, and work just like everybody else.You know, America's diversity, our openness, our devotion to human rights and freedom is what's drawn so many to our shores. What's inspired people all over the world. I know. I've seen it with my own eyes.And these are also qualities that prepare us well for the demands of a world that is more interconnected than ever before.So we have a third fight: to harness all of America's power, smarts, and values to maintain our leadership for peace, security, and prosperity.No other country on Earth is better positioned to thrive in the 21st century. No other country is better equipped to meet traditional threats from countries like Russia, North Korea, and Iran — and to deal with the rise of new powers like China.No other country is better prepared to meet emerging threats from cyber attacks, transnational terror networks like ISIS, and diseases that spread across oceans and continents.As your President, I'll do whatever it takes to keep Americans safe.And if you look over my left shoulder you can see the new World Trade Center soaring skyward.As a Senator from New York, I dedicated myself to getting our city and state the help we needed to recover. And as a member of the Armed Services Committee, I worked to maintain the best-trained, best-equipped, strongest military, ready for today's threats and tomorrow's.And when our brave men and women come home from war or finish their service, I'll see to it that they get not just the thanks of a grateful nation, but the care and benefits they've earned.I've stood up to adversaries like Putin and reinforced allies like Israel. I was in the Situation Room on the day we got bin Laden.But, I know — I know we have to be smart as well as strong.Meeting today's global challenges requires every element of America's power, including skillful diplomacy, economic influence, and building partnerships to improve lives around the world with people, not just their governments.There are a lot of trouble spots in the world, but there's a lot of good news out there too.I believe the future holds far more opportunities than threats if we exercise creative and confident leadership that enables us to shape global events rather than be shaped by them.And we all know that in order to be strong in the world, though, we first have to be strong at home. That's why we have to win the fourth fight — reforming our government and revitalizing our democracy so that it works for everyday Americans.We have to stop the endless flow of secret, unaccountable money that is distorting our elections, corrupting our political process, and drowning out the voices of our people.We need Justices on the Supreme Court who will protect every citizen's right to vote, rather than every corporation's right to buy elections.If necessary, I will support a constitutional amendment to undo the Supreme Court's decision in Citizens United.I want to make it easier for every citizen to vote. That's why I've proposed universal, automatic registration and expanded early voting.I'll fight back against Republican efforts to disempower and disenfranchise young people, poor people, people with disabilities, and people of color.What part of democracy are they afraid of?No matter how easy we make it to vote, we still have to give Americans something worth voting for.Government is never going to have all the answers — but it has to be smarter, simpler, more efficient, and a better partner.That means access to advanced technology so government agencies can more effectively serve their customers, the American people.We need expertise and innovation from the private sector to help cut waste and streamline services.There's so much that works in America. For every problem we face, someone somewhere in America is solving it. Silicon Valley cracked the code on sharing and scaling a while ago. Many states are pioneering new ways to deliver services. I want to help Washington catch up.To do that, we need a political system that produces results by solving problems that hold us back, not one overwhelmed by extreme partisanship and inflexibility.Now, I'll always seek common ground with friend and opponent alike. But I'll also stand my ground when I must.That's something I did as Senator and Secretary of State — whether it was working with Republicans to expand health care for children and for our National Guard, or improve our foster care and adoption system, or pass a treaty to reduce the number of Russian nuclear warheads that could threaten our cities — and it's something I will always do as your President.We Americans may differ, bicker, stumble, and fall; but we are at our best when we pick each other up, when we have each other's back.Like any family, our American family is strongest when we cherish what we have in common, and fight back against those who would drive us apart.People all over the world have asked me: "How could you and President Obama work together after you fought so hard against each other in that long campaign?"Now, that is an understandable question considering that in many places, if you lose an election you could get imprisoned or exiled — even killed — not hired as Secretary of State.But President Obama asked me to serve, and I accepted because we both love our country. That's how we do it in America.With that same spirit, together, we can win these four fights.We can build an economy where hard work is rewarded.We can strengthen our families.We can defend our country and increase our opportunities all over the world.And we can renew the promise of our democracy.If we all do our part. In our families, in our businesses, unions, houses of worship, schools, and, yes, in the voting booth.I want you to join me in this effort. Help me build this campaign and make it your own.Talk to your friends, your family, your neighbors.Text "JOIN" to 4-7-2-4-6.Go to hillaryclinton.com and sign up to make calls and knock on doors.It's no secret that we're going up against some pretty powerful forces that will do and spend whatever it takes to advance a very different vision for America. But I've spent my life fighting for children, families, and our country. And I'm not stopping now.You know, I know how hard this job is. I've seen it up close and personal.All our Presidents come into office looking so vigorous. And then we watch their hair grow grayer and grayer.Well, I may not be the youngest candidate in this race. But I will be the youngest woman President in the history of the United States!And the first grandmother as well.And one additional advantage: You're won't see my hair turn white in the White House. I've been coloring it for years!So I'm looking forward to a great debate among Democrats, Republicans, and Independents. I'm not running to be a President only for those Americans who already agree with me. I want to be a President for all Americans.And along the way, I'll just let you in on this little secret. I won't get everything right. Lord knows I've made my share of mistakes. Well, there's no shortage of people pointing them out!And I certainly haven't won every battle I've fought. But leadership means perseverance and hard choices. You have to push through the setbacks and disappointments and keep at it.I think you know by now that I've been called many things by many people — "quitter" is not one of them.Like so much else in my life, I got this from my mother.When I was a girl, she never let me back down from any bully or barrier. In her later years, Mom lived with us, and she was still teaching me the same lessons. I'd come home from a hard day at the Senate or the State Department, sit down with her at the small table in our breakfast nook, and just let everything pour out. And she would remind me why we keep fighting, even when the odds are long and the opposition is fierce.I can still hear her saying: "Life's not about what happens to you, it's about what you do with what happens to you — so get back out there."She lived to be 92 years old, and I often think about all the battles she witnessed over the course of the last century — all the progress that was won because Americans refused to give up or back down.She was born on June 4, 1919 — before women in America had the right to vote. But on that very day, after years of struggle, Congress passed the Constitutional Amendment that would change that forever.The story of America is a story of hard-fought, hard-won progress. And it continues today. New chapters are being written by men and women who believe that all of us — not just some, but all — should have the chance to live up to our God-given potential.Not only because we're a tolerant country, or a generous country, or a compassionate country, but because we're a better, stronger, more prosperous country when we harness the talent, hard work, and ingenuity of every single American.I wish my mother could have been with us longer. I wish she could have seen Chelsea become a mother herself. I wish she could have met Charlotte.I wish she could have seen the America we're going to build together.An America, where if you do your part, you reap the rewards.Where we don't leave anyone out, or anyone behind.An America where a father can tell his daughter: yes, you can be anything you want to be. Even President of the United States.Thank you all. God bless you. And may God bless America.
CLINTON: Thank you so much. [applause] Thank you. Oh, I am thrilled to be here, and to be in such a beautiful facility, having just had the chance to spend a little time with some children, mostly 4-year-olds, but a few 5-year-olds. It was great. And I thank Julie and the entire team here at the Y. I am such a big believer in this kind of partnership, and I was thrilled, as Julie was talking about it, to see the applause break out on behalf of this YMCA and all that it does. This is, for me, a very important place to be to talk about a really critical issue, one that, as Julie has said, I have spent much of my adult life being committed to and concerned about, and I can't think of a better place to do this than here in New Hampshire, a state that will always have a special place in my heart. [laughter] [applause] And so, I had a great event Saturday in a perfect place on a perfect day, on Roosevelt Island in New York City at the Four Freedoms park that was constructed in honor of President Roosevelt. And I was able to talk about the four fights that I want to wage and win on behalf of the American people. They, to me, really encapsulate what my campaign is about, but also what our country needs to do together, build an economy for tomorrow, not yesterday; strengthen America's families, because when our families are strong, America is strong; harness all of our power, not just the military but diplomatic and economic to use our values to lead the world; and to revitalize our democracy here at home, particularly by focusing on getting dark, unaccountable money out of politics, even if it takes a constitutional amendment. [applause] And I will be rolling out specific policies over the weeks to come, but I do believe with all my heart that everything we need to do in our country really starts with how we treat our children and how we try to raise them, taking care of their needs, being able to stimulate them, to give them a better chance in life, helping them become successful and good citizens. And, for me, all of this does come back to our kids. And that's because my mother, who was with me in New Hampshire in 2008, really taught me that everybody needs a chance and everybody needs a champion. And for... [applause] For her, she knew what it was like not to have either when she was growing up, because she was abandoned very young by her parents and sent to live with grandparents who didn't want her, so that by the time she was 14, she was out on her own, working as a house maid and a babysitter, in another family's home. And I didn't know any of this when I was growing up. When I was the age of the kids we were reading "The Very Hungry Caterpillar" to, I just knew she was my mom. And she was great and she was fun, and she taught me so much. And she made grilled cheese and tomato soup sandwiches. I mean, there was just a wonderful sense of being loved and taken care of, but also being inspired. And I remember asking her when I got old enough to kind of piece together some of the answers to questions I was getting about her childhood, how could she do this? And her answer was very simple, you know, kindness along the way from people that cared about her and showed her she mattered. The first-grade teacher who saw she had nothing to eat for lunch, and without embarrassing here, started bringing extra food, and then would lean over and whisper, "Dorothy, I brought too much food today. Would you like some? I can't eat it all." Or even the woman whose house she went to work in, she wanted so much to go to high school, but she knew she had to do the chores that were necessary. And so the woman said, "Well, if you can get your chores done, you can go to high school." And that was a great gift that my mother was forever grateful for. Because those people believed in her, she believed in me. You know, there is a direct link. If we believe in our children, we instill in them the belief that they are worth something. And then they, in turn, can pass that on. Now, ideally we all hope that families can do that. But in today's world, it's really hard for many families to do everything they're expected to do under the stresses that they face. Because of her, I believe in the potential of every American, and particularly every American child. And when our children succeed, America succeeds. So, I've been a champion for early childhood education for as long as I can remember, really starting when I was in law school and got interested in, as I was studying the law, why do some people follow the law and other people don't. What's—what's in their background? What makes them either a productive member of society or somebody on the outside who may be trying to tear down instead of build up? And that's why I'm putting this front and center in my campaign, because I think it's time we realized once and for all that investing in our children is one of the best investments our country can make. [applause] Now, I think most of us kind of intuitively have known that. But now research is telling us how much early learning in the first five years of life can impact life-long success. So we have to help parents be their children's first teachers, from that very first day. And we have to help them get access to quality, affordable childcare and preschool. And for me, it's recognizing the reality of today's families: 40 percent of the breadwinners, the principle breadwinners in America today are women. We have a lot of single moms heroically trying to raise kids under sometimes very challenging circumstances. We have a lot of two-parent families where people are working night shifts. They're overlapping. They are just doing everything they can sometimes with multiple jobs to keep body and soul together and put that food on the table and that roof over their head. Today's parents have to juggle so much. They have to squeeze every minute out of every 24-hour day. And that just makes the argument even stronger as to why we have to have their backs. We have to be there to help them do the best job they can possibly do. Yes, they need to do the job that pays them. But at the end of the day, the job raising children, taking care of your family, caring even for your parents as they age, is the most important job any of us will ever do. And we don't do it for pay. We do it for love. We do it for a sense of giving back. But let's try to figure out how to make it a little bit easier. You know, I met a woman... [applause] You know, I met a woman a few weeks—a couple weeks ago who was trying to do everything she could imagine to make it work. She was a single mom. She's raising three kids. She was working, and she was going to community college, because she was trying to get ahead so that she could get a better job. She said, "You know, I don't ask for anything, but why does it have to be so hard"? I hear that question all over. "Why does it have to be so hard"? It's hard enough to pay for any preschool or childcare at all, let alone the quality programs that help kids develop and flourish. Funding for these opportunities has not kept up with changing times and rising demand. So it's no surprise that out-of-pocket childcare costs for families have soared by nearly 25 percent the past decade. In many states, it costs more for childcare of quality than it costs for college tuition, and we know what's happened at that end of the learning curve. We actually did make a lot of progress expanding preschool attendance for 3-and 4-year-olds during the 1990s. I was honored to hold the first ever White House conference on early childhood development to bring together people, like those you see here. [applause] But starting in 2001, there's been almost no progress. Only 55 percent of all of America's 3-and 4-year-olds are enrolled in preschool, and meanwhile, many of our economic competitors are racing ahead. They are making big investments in preschool and early education. I'll tell you a little story. You know, I spent a lot of time as secretary of state trying to figure out how we were going to deal with the rise of China. It's going to be one of the biggest problems for the next president. And there're a lot of aspects to it. But I was not surprised to get a call about two years ago shortly, after I left the State Department, on behalf of the highest-ranking woman in the Chinese government. And she was coming to Washington, and I had worked with her as secretary of state, and she asked if she could see me, and I said, "Of course. I'd be happy to see her." And then she said, "You know, could you do an event with me about early childhood"? I said, "Oh, certainly. What is it about early childhood that has you so interested"? Here's what she said, and then we did the event. We did the event at the Brookings Institute in Washington. China's making a huge commitment to early childhood and to pre-kindergarten. Why? They look at the same brain research. In fact, they have asked the American Nobel Prize-winning economist from the University of Chicago, hardly a hotbed of radical liberalism... [laughter] ... to be their consultant, among others, because he did the study, which proved that early-childhood investing by a country is one of the best returns on investment that we can make. So the Chinese are using an American expert for that. [applause] Though, if I hadn't been excited before, I got really motivated about this. But unfortunately, we're hearing something different from Republican leaders in Washington. Republicans aren't just missing the boat on early-childhood education; they're trying to sink it. Their budget puts at risk on the most effective investments for our youngest children, Early Head Start. Did they cut subsidies to oil companies? No. Did they cut tax loopholes, like carried interest for hedge-fund managers? No. The Republicans took care of those at the top and went after the kids. Now I believe getting off to a good start should be our children's birthright, part of the basic bargain that we have with each other as a nation. Every child should have the tools and the skills to thrive in tomorrow's economy, especially those kids from our most vulnerable and at-risk communities. And we need to make sure that parents can get good jobs and stay in the workforce. That drives the economic engine. So we have to do more to help them deal with the most difficult of the decisions of parents for young children to stay in the workforce. I believe the time has come to make pre-school and quality child care available to every child in America. If our families are going to be strong and our economy is going to thrive, all our kids need the chance to get off to the best possible start. [applause] I will I will work with states and communities across America to make sure that in the next 10 years, every four-year-old in America has access to high-quality pre-school. Now already governors and state legislatures across the country are discovering the value of pre-school and this is bipartisan. You know, one of the states with a universal pre-K program in America is Oklahoma—about as red a state as you can get. But they have figured it out, the government and business leaders and families alike that this is a smart investment for them. And we have to build on the momentum started by the states. Now look how far here in New Hampshire you've come. Nearly 20 years ago, back when Senator Jeanne Shaheen was Governor Shaheen, she delivered funding for public kindergarten for the first time in the state's history. [applause] That then allowed the conversation to move where it is today with Governor Maggie Hassan supporting efforts for full-day kindergarten and innovative pre-K partnerships. So you start and get what you... [applause] ... have achieved on kindergarten. Then you move toward full day and then innovative pre-K. All across the country we need to be doing that. And we also need to invest in child care because, if you only start at four, the brain research shows that 80 percent of your brain has developed by the age of three. Now the good news is that leaves 20 percent to keep working on. [laughter] But it is a fact that, by three, many of our kids have already had most of the brain development that they're going to get. And in this campaign, I'll offer a comprehensive agenda to ensure that every child in America has access to quality affordable child care. [applause] I will propose a middle-class tax cut to help parents deal with rising child care costs. [applause] And I'll lead an effort to expand child care opportunities and to make sure that programs address both the needs of working parents and the needs of children. We shouldn't think of child care as just a place to deposit your kids, a warehouse. We should invest in programs that create health environments for early learning and to make sure that parents get the support they need from the time their children are infants. I will double the Early Head Start Child Care Partnership Grant Program, which brings Head Start's evidenced-based curriculum into the child care setting to provide comprehensive, full-day, high-quality services to low-income families. And I will double our investment in Early Head Start itself, a program I helped to create when I was first lady. And we know... [applause] We know it's making a difference, because we actually have evidence that shows it's making a difference. And this is part, as I said, of a long-term commitment of mine, going back to my Methodist Church, where I was—I was raised, and babysitting, you know, children of Mexican migrant farmworkers, through my years at the Children's Defense Fund, working to expand opportunities for kids with disabilities, and through my time in the White House with my husband and in the Senate in New York and even as secretary of state, because I have learned that talent is universal, but opportunity is not. And I look sometimes... [applause] I look sometimes in the eyes of kids who've had a really tough set of obstacles to overcome, and they're doing the best they can. And we need to do what we can to help them succeed. But every baby comes into this world with so much God-given potential. And when they leave the hospital, some will have great opportunity their family can give them, and others will struggle. Now, as you may have heard, I am a new grandmother. And so, for me... [applause] ... this has become really personal. I remember being in the hospital waiting for Charlotte's arrival and talking to the nurses there. And what did they want to talk to me about? They wanted to talk to me about how hard it was for them, plus a lot of their patients, to get childcare. How it was especially hard when they had to work the night shift. How they has to keep juggling everything, all the time. And it was here, at one of the great moments in my life, a reminder that there are so many hardworking, conscientious people, who deserve more help than they're getting right now. And it needs to be a partnership, just like this Y is a partnership. You know, a partnership between the public and private interests. A partnership where people feel that they can contribute and participate. I think if we come together and take this on as a true national mission, we can unlock the potential of all our children and further the potential of our country. And our country then will be more inclusive, not leaving people behind and out, and where a father can tell his daughter, "You can grow up to be anything you want, including president of the United States." [applause] QUESTION: Well, how do you do? How do you do? I'm Jackie Cowell , and like many of you I'm looking around the audience and I'm seeing many of you that like me have been working on this for 20 or 30 years. So thank you for your perseverance on early childhood education out there, you know. And the children that you met this morning are likely to graduate from high school in 2030. So just think about what 2030 is going to be looking like. When I was in high school, our class took a field trip to see a computer. I don't... [laughter] ... I don't think they do that anymore, but... [laughter] ... but it's really going to be—they're likely to retire in the 2080s. So how do you prepare them for this very complex world they're going to inherit? And many of them will hold jobs that haven't been invented yet. So it's really working on these skills, as you talked about—early childhood education. And we're thrilled that this discourse is now part of the presidential primary; that early childhood education is being talked about; and making sure ever child has the opportunity to reach their full potential. And, you know, here in New Hampshire, things have been tough for families, trying to make ends meet, trying to make sure they can get into childcare that is quality, that really helps them reach their full potential. And there's too many families that aren't able to do that because of the difference of the cost. So, yeah. CLINTON: Well, you know, Jackie , I think that's a great perspective to put on it because when we talk about early childhood, we think about the little kids like the ones that we were with in the classroom. But we ought to have a broader perspective and think about the adults they will become. And what kind of adults do we need? We need people who will have exactly the skills for jobs that haven't been invented, and will have the temperament and the character and the attributes to, you know, get along with people, to respect the law, respect each other, to be part of building a stronger, more prosperous America. And I think it's a great perspective if you kind of work backwards and you say to yourself, "OK, what are you going to look for in somebody who wants to be a worker and a citizen in 15, 20, 30 years?" You know that that really starts so importantly at the beginning. QUESTION: Thank you so much for being here this morning and for this discussion. I'm Mary Lou Beaver from Rochester. I'm not here this morning representing an organization, but as someone who was in the field for more than 25 years as a teacher, as a center director, and as a center owner here in Rochester. I also was a mom, who was dependent upon childcare for my children as I suddenly found myself a single mom, and was in school trying to continue my education so that I could do more and provide more for my family. Having quality childcare education, early education for my kids was so important to me because I was in and out so much of the time when I really wanted to be spending time with them, and wanted to give them all that I could. But as so many parents today are facing, you need to work the hours that you have to work in order to support your family. And it's very important that we have not only the accessibility and the quality, but the affordability for all families. Do you agree? CLINTON: Oh, I do agree. And I think your story is really important for everybody to hear because that is the reality that is going on right now. I—I just meet so many working parents, particularly single working moms who are struggling. They're really working as hard as they can, as you were, and many of them trying to go to school at the same time because they know they'll have a better future if they do. I remember when I was teaching law at the University of Arkansas, oh gosh, back in the early 1970s, I met so many people around the campus who were single parents, trying to go to school. And childcare was their biggest obstacle. And we, you know, we started a fund called the Arkansas Single Parent Scholarship Fund, because it wasn't the money that they needed so much for the tuition, although that was a stretch, it was all the other expenses that surrounded the difficulty of them being able to get their education. And I think you have to look at what young families are going through today in a very comprehensive way and say, OK, what can the extended family do? What can the—you know, houses of worship, our churches, do? What can communities do? What can the Y do? Or you know, the Boys & Girls Club? There's so many different ways to kind of piece this together, but there isn't any way to get to a universal program, unless our government in Washington sees it as a priority to partner with many of the states and localities—we have the mayor here; thank you for being here, mayor—so that we can provide the backstop and the support that is necessary. And it's particularly important for the youngest kids, the zero to three kids, because those are kids who need a lot more personal attention. You know, Bill and I are exhausted every time we take care of Charlotte. [laughter] We love every minute of it, but whew. It reminds you hard it is to raise babies and to keep an eye on them, as they, you know, take off on their own. So I think it is important that we do everything we can to deal with that zero-to-three age group. And that's going to take more direction. That's why I mentioned Early Head Start Child Care Partnership and the Early Head Start Program. But again, we need more people to help fill that space because that's often where parents really are stretched, and we also don't have a lot of time off for a lot of working parents And so, just getting everything organized, when you have that new baby is a challenge, don't you think? QUESTION: Absolutely. As a grandmother, I can certainly relate to the exhaustion. [laughter] The other concern that I had as a center director was the wages that we were able to pay to our educators. We know that consistent, quality educators are so important to young children, as they are growing and learning. But we can't always keep them, because of the wages that are paid. CLINTON: Well, that's why I said I'm going to offer a middle-class tax cut that can go toward helping parents pay for quality child care, because you've put your finger on one the biggest problems. A lot of parents cannot afford quality child care. And a lot of the teachers and the child care workers can't afford to live on what the parents can pay. So you have a perfect storm where we need quality child care, but how are we going to get the people with the continuity so that the experience is there to be able to deliver that child care. When parents can't go any further, they're stretched as far as they can get. And I have been meeting with child care workers. And a lot of them just throw up their hands. They'd rather go be a food server for the money, but not for the, you know, reward that they have gotten from taking care of kids. They just—I mean, they're making $8, $9, $10 an hour for often 12-hour days. And that is just a huge burden on them and their family. So then, you have a downward spiral. Is that what you've seen, too? QUESTION: It is. There's a saying that: Parent's can't afford to pay; teachers can't afford to stay; there's got to be a better way. And so... UNKNOWN: That's good. QUESTION: Right—it's the Worthy Wage Campaign, is—that's their saying. And so here in New Hampshire, we've actually with the Department of Education, Department of Health and Human Services and our governor's office applied for two federal grants, hoping to really show what we could do in early childhood education. So the Race to the Top—Early Learning Challenge Grant and the Preschool Development Grant, and we didn't get them. And one of the reasons, we're the only New England state that didn't get the Race to the Top Grant, because we've been divesting instead of investing. And so what we found also, talking with business leaders, that this is not a red or a blue issue, that people really genuinely care about making sure every child has that opportunity. So here in New Hampshire, we're really seeing that starting to—to come—but we haven't gotten those grants, and we'd like to. CLINTON: Well, I want to throw it open for—I know there're a lot of people in this audience who care deeply about this issue, have their own experience in doing the issue. And so Julia, I think we should see if somebody else wants to contribute to the conversation. MODERATOR: Do we have any questions from the audience? Right here in the pattern? QUESTION: Hi. CLINTON: There is—there is... MODERATOR: There is a microphone coming. CLINTON: There's a roving microphone. [laughter] QUESTION: Oh. Thank you. My daughter—my granddaughter is here. What are you going to do for the—the grandparents that are raising these children? My generation, all of my friends are raising their grandchildren. CLINTON: Can I ask you without—I don't want to impinge on your—your privacy. What are the circumstances under which you're raising your grandchildren [inaudible]? QUESTION: It was—[inaudible]—they're going to be turned over to the state because of addiction. CLINTON: So, you know, I have to tell you, this is—thank you. Thank you. I'm so, so sorry. But you are the second grandmother in New Hampshire who's said that to me. And that's one of the reasons why if you followed my campaign—because of what I've been hearing, because I have spent two months listening to people, because I do think it's important, when you want to represent the entire country, you actually listen to what's happening in people's lives. And substance abuse and addiction is ravaging families all over the country. And I heard it first in Iowa and then as soon as I got to New Hampshire—I was sitting down in Keene, New Hampshire talking to some people. First thing a retired doctor said, "What are you going to do about the heroin epidemic in New Hampshire"? First of all, I'm going to talk a lot about it, because we need to drag it out of shadows. We need to hold it up to the light. [applause] And—and—and then it's heartbreaking, because there has not been an event I've got to, where somebody hasn't come up to me, sometimes bravely, like you did in public, and sometimes just privately taking me aside to talk to me about it. That and mental-health problems that go untreated and... [applause] So I would say three things. First, I think you're very brave and very loving to take on this responsibility, and you should know that every time... [applause] ... you think about how hard it is, and you're grandchildren will be really better off because their grandmother stepped in and said, "I'm here for you, and I will take care of you." [applause] Secondly, we have to—we have to extend every program, every tax—everything we do to people taking care of kids, whether they are parents or they are grandparents or maybe, in some cases, older siblings or aunts or uncles, because of the inability of a child's parents to be able to do so. So whatever I propose, you will be eligible for, people who are taking care of their grandchildren. [applause] Yes. Yes. [applause] Right now, you can't get any help in most places. And we have to change that. We have to face the reality. I mean, when you're—look, I just --we were just laughing about, you know, my eight-month old is beginning, you know, heave herself around in the resemblance of a crawl. But once she takes off and we're chasing her around, and trying to keep her hands out of the outlets and all the things that you have to do with little kids, grandparents who are raising their kids, and there are millions of them, need more help. You know, when I was a senator, I championed a program in New York City to have a special form of housing for grandmothers raising their kids, because they needed, in my view, the support of a community. Because it can be really isolating. I mean, most of your friends, you know, they're not raising babies, toddlers or school-age kids, so you need the support of a broader community to help you with that, and you need the support that any parent would get, because that's what you're doing, you're parenting. So I can tell you that I will do everything I can, both in any benefit that I think the country should extend to raising children, you will be eligible, but also to the idea of how do we provide support for you and for other grandmothers, because it's predominantly grandmothers. There are some grandfathers, predominantly grandmothers too. QUESTION: [off-mike] CLINTON: It is. QUESTION: [off-mike] CLINTON: You have half-a-dozen friends? QUESTION: Well, yeah. CLINTON: No, no, I mean who are raising their children. [laughter] Yeah. QUESTION: They're raising... [crosstalk] CLINTON: And do you support each other? QUESTION: Oh, absolutely. CLINTON: OK. That's—that's important. You need to support each other because you need to get that, you know, that emotional support and the—and the—and the hints and the tips, like, you know, somebody finds out something that'll work for them, it may work for you. So thank you for raising that and thank you for saying that. Yeah. Julie? MODERATOR: Thank you. Next question. Over here? Sure. QUESTION: Hi. Early childhood education is a great foundation, but I have a 14 year old, so what your plans for education in general? The state of education today is horrendous, especially for children with ADHD. You're looking at cookie-cutter classrooms, and these kids don't learn that way. So what types of plans do you have for them? CLINTON: Well, this is one of the—you know, the key issues about how we do more do adapt our school system to spark the ability to learn in every kind of kid, because kids learn differently. You know, some kids can sit there and absorb the teacher's lessons. Some kids need to move. Some kids need to have practical experience. And I do think we have erred in trying to channel every kid into one form of learning. And I don't think that... [applause] I don't think that works for every kid. And especially for kids who are hyperactive, kids who, you know, need to be channeled and directed, but also need to be able to, you know, get rid of some of that extra energy that they've got. I mean, I don't know how you—I don't know how you expect to eliminate everything from recess to gym to extracurricular activities during the school day and not have a lot of kids unable to concentrate and a lot of kids unable to really absorb the lessons you're trying to teach. So, the specific issue about ADHD kids is we need to make sure we have the best possible diagnosis and treatment, because we are medicating lots of kids. And I think we have to ask ourselves: Are we medicating those kids because they have a medical condition that needs to be medicated? And the answer is yes, some do, no doubt about it. But are we medicating kids because we've not yet figured out how to better deal with their particular needs? And that starts in the family, because it, you know, it's hard for a lot of families, but it also goes into the schools. So I—I—part of what I will be talking about in the campaign is how do we, you know, get our schools and doing so by respecting our teachers who are on the front lines of trying to... [applause] ... help kids. And, you know, trying to figure out what works for different kinds of kids. And I don't think a cookie-cutter approach works. I want every kid to do well in school. I want every kid to get the skills that that kid needs. I think we made an error when we eliminated in high school, in most high schools, technical education, what we used to call vocational education. [applause] I think, you know, there are—we're going to need a lot of jobs that are good jobs, by people who can do work that is not just academic work. It is work that, you know, they learn to do by doing. And then—I was, you know, I was in a community college, you knew, New Hampshire Technical Institute, talking to the people there. And the—there were students who were taking courses, who were in high school. That's one way of doing it, having kind of a group of high schools send their kids to a technical institute if they're interested. I went to one in Iowa where young kids were learning how to be machinists. They were juniors and seniors in high school. And the ones who were seniors had jobs lined up, starting to pay, like, $40,000 because they were coming out as a certified machinist. Well, we need to make that available for more kids. And, look, I'm not a scientist. [laughter] But unlike a lot of the candidates on the other side, I actually listen to scientists. [laughter] And one of the things that... [laughter and applause] ... one of the things that I will try to do, with a—by partnering, you know, not by mandating and directing, but partnering with our educators, partnering with people who have experience like our folks here, is to figure out: OK, how do we get more hands-on learning? Because I do believe that for kids, especially ADHD kids, doing something, not trying to sit still, which is really hard, but getting up and learning, you know, going from machine to machine to figure out how it works, if that's their interest. So we're going to take a hard look at all of that. But it's—you know, education is a local and state matter, but I think if we do a better job looking at all the research about what actually produces the best results, then we can come up with some incentive programs and some encouragement that will begin to try once again to get our education system to respond to the real needs that a whole variety of kids have. QUESTION: Thank you. [applause] MODERATOR: Can we get someone in the back? Women in the [inaudible]? Yes. Here comes the mike. QUESTION: Thank you. We spend so much money on the military and we are able to get the money just like this. But nationwide, our schools are not equal and they're not of the same standards. So, why are we not making a priority nationwide and per state on education as much as spending on other things? And the military is important, I do realize that. OK. Thank you.CLINTON: Well, you know, education has been principally a state responsibility and a local responsibility. And it really wasn't until, you know, 30, 40 years ago, really, I guess back in the 1960s, when the government began to put in a lot more money from the Federal Government into education. And the original idea behind the Federal Government putting money in was to try to equalize spending, so that, you know, kids in poor districts would have a better chance to get the same resources and the same quality of teachers and all that, which I think is still very important, so that it was an equity argument—some of you know, Title 1, in the Elementary and Secondary Education Act—was really designed to do that. Then in the Reagan Administration, I think it was 19—I want to remember here—'83 or so. There was a report that came out called "A Nation at Risk." And it compared our educational outcomes with comparable countries, mostly Europeans, some Asian, and basically said, you know, our kids are not keeping up, they're not performing. And that was really a big change. The Reagan administration began saying, OK, well, the Federal Government has to do more to try to change the way we're educating. And that went on. And certainly, President George W. Bush with No Child Left Behind, it was certainly well-motivated. I was in the Senate. I know the arguments that were made. And it was to try to, you know, create a system where, no matter who you were, where you went to school, you'd have the same expectations about how you were going to achieve. And I say all of this because we've always spent money on our military, you know, depending upon who's in and who's out, greater or lesser amounts. But always the biggest part of the budget, other than Social Security, Medicare, et cetera. So I think that your question is a fair one, like, what are our priorities? We will always have to have the—you know, the strongest, best-equipped military. But even there we have to save money. We have to be smart about it. We have to look for ways to get more done efficiently. And just like every other part of government, it needs to be looked at hard, so that we don't just send money, without getting the results that we need. And there are a lot of issues in procurement and in other areas around—you know, military equipment and expenditures that really need to be cleaned up, streamlined and made less expensive without sacrificing quality. So I think that it's time in our country—and in my speech on Saturday, I said we have to [inaudible] our government. We have to take a hard look at everything. We have to bring it into the 21st century. Now our military equipment is 22nd century. I mean, it's more advanced than anybody, anywhere. But we're also fighting wars where a lot of what we've paid a lot of money for is no longer applicable. I mean, we're dealing with different kinds of threats. We're dealing with cyber threats. We're dealing with, you know, irregular warfare and terrorism. So we've got to adjust how we fund even defense, but we have to always fund it. to the extend that we need to get the outcomes we're looking for. But on education, we've put more federal dollars in. But to go back to the question about ADHD, we need to take a hard look about what's working and what's not working. I just want to give you a—and I'm going to roll out a whole education proposal, too. But I want to give you a quick understanding of what I mean. You know, everybody believes, and I'm guilty of this, that we're an expert about education, because we went to school. [laughter] And those of us who are parents, we had kids in school, so we think we got it all figured out. We know what worked or didn't work for us and, therefore, we kind of translate that into what will or won't work for other people. Look, there's a lot of truth to that. People's—your experience matters. And how you experienced school matters. But I think research really counts. So, there's a team of researchers I know—you know, they're based at Harvard, but other schools have been involved. And they went through all of the work that's been done. They said, OK, what makes for a great school? And they came out with some things that are simple, but hard to do and hard to pay for, you know, things like a longer school year, particularly for disadvantaged kids. We have so much research, it matters, because, you know, for many of this in room, summertime, you give your kids new experiences. Maybe they go to the Y camp. I was talking to, you know, one of he people where who runs the camps. Maybe they—maybe you take them on trips, where they go to museums. But for a lot of kids, they actually lose learning over the summer. So here the teachers have worked and worked, and parents have reinforced the messages in many instances, then they lose ground, so they start the school year a little behind in some areas than where they ended the school year. So a longer school year for a lot of kids makes a lot of sense. A longer school day for a lot of kids makes a lot of sense, because if you have kids particularly in the pre-teen, early-teen years, and they get out of school before parents get home from work, that is one of the worst times of the day for kids to get themselves in trouble. And all kinds of trouble and bad influences. Well, you know, the parents are working. Oftentimes, again, they have no options, so longer day, longer school day. More support for preparing for teachers so that they can share what works with each other. Now, that sounds so simple, but it is so critical. Like, OK, what worked in your classroom? You know, I tried this lesson, it didn't work, let's take another look at it. And what we've done instead is to disempower experienced teachers and instead basically try to lay on top of them all of these tests and all of these standards. I believe in both, always have, but you can get to a point of diminishing returns. Too many and really all you're doing is like running on the hamster wheel, instead of figuring out what does this kid need? What's the diagnosis for this kid's problem? How do we deal with it? And then finally let's not forget the role that parents play and families play in helping a kid succeed in school. So having more interaction between the school and the home, even if it's a phone call, even if it's an e-mail exchange, even better if it's regular visits. Because if parents don't understand what their kids are supposed to be learning and they don't reinforce it, it's really hard for teachers to make that case. So I think that we can do a better job in using the money we spend on education more effectively and trying to figure out where at state and local levels more expenditures would make a difference. And I'm very open to that because it breaks my heart that in a lot of poor districts right now, those poor schools have lost every extracurricular activity. They don't have sports teams anymore. They don't have bands. They don't have plays. They don't have a lot of the things that you remember from school and that for many kids gave them their first taste of success. And so, when you cut out all of those programs and you just say, "You've got to do well on these tests" that are taught in a certain way, to be learned in a certain way, a lot of kids are not gonna be able to grasp that and do well. But if you give them more options, more responsibility and more support for those places that need it, then, I think, we can get better outcomes personally as well as academically. So that's what I want to see us do more of, so. [applause] QUESTION: Thank you. MODERATOR: Thank you. We have time for one more question. Lady in the back in the polka dot? QUESTION: Thank you for mentioning that you listen to scientists, because I happen to be one of them. [laughter] CLINTON: Excellent. [laughter] QUESTION: So I'm a mom, and [inaudible] that way, but also I am a research psychologist, and studying creativity and studying social-emotional learning, especially in schools. And one thing that you mentioned also was that we want to prepare kids, and I completely agree with you, for the jobs of tomorrow that we don't know what they're going to be. We don't know what they are going to be, and the central skill that we need to teach them and enable is creativity. However, we seem to also do one more thing is compare ourselves to places like China. And our education is turning into worksheet-based education. Only we are drilling kids and art is disappearing, music is disappearing, even in [inaudible] rich schools where I live in Portsmouth. Art is once a week. Music is once a week. That's it. And it's all about tests and it's all about [inaudible] even in kindergarten. I have heard stories from kindergartners who come home crying after tests in kindergarten. So, can we try to compare ourselves also to places like Finland that do not start formal education until age seven? [applause] They let them play. [applause] CLINTON: Well, you make a great point. If people are really interested in following up on the points that she made, we don't compare ourselves to China, but it is stressing to me when China invests in preschool opportunities for kids and we don't. Because if you look at the highest-performing nations, Finland is usually at the top. They have early childhood education. They have paid leave. They have support for families. And yes, they don't start school until kids are seven, but those kids have not just been wandering around fending for themselves. They've been in organized settings, predominantly family-based, but not exclusively. And if you look at the other countries—the best comparisons are to what are called the OECD countries, if you're interested in googling that and looking. They do a very thorough educational survey every few years and they lay out what's working and what's not working. And I absolutely agree that, you know, creativity, you cannot expect kids to be creative if you don't let them play. Now, playing is a learning experience and in preschool it should be, in kindergarten it should be. [applause] That doesn't mean they can't be learning at the same time. And that—and this debate that we're having seems to me to be so beside the point. It's not like either play or learn. Through play that is supervised in preschool, you will learn if it's done right. That's why we want quality preschool. Right? And so it's a way of unleashing creativity and allowing, you know, little kids' personalities to develop. I just—in the classroom where I just was, I was handed this book of drawings. Each of the kids did a drawing about what they want to be when they grow up. And, you know, they want to be a firefighter. They want to be an artist. They want to be a vet. They want to be a hair stylist. I mean, it was everything you could imagine, but that's the beginning of them thinking about envisioning adulthood. So the teachers here, they look at that, and they—and they—you know, they'll talk about what it would mean to be a vet. Or gee, why do you want to be a hair stylist? What does that mean to you? What kind of artist do you want to be? That is just as important as anything else you can do in the classroom. And so I think that the reaction against all the testing is coming from people who believe that we have to—we have to hold accountable what happens in our school. We can't just say it doesn't matter whether kids learn anything. That's not acceptable. But we have to get back to thinking about the different ways kids learn, and creativity—the best gift you can give a child is a creative, open, learning mind that will enable that child to pursue his or her own dreams to live up to his or her own God-given potential. And that potential may... [applause] ... may not at all be the same by anybody else's. So I want to—I want to give our two guests, if I can, the chance for the last word, because they—they've been on the front lines. UNKNOWN: Thanks, Secretary. You know, we're just delighted again that this is part of a discourse in the presidential campaign, having early childhood education. And it really is in those earliest years—more than numeracy and literacy, it's those essential life skills, like you mentioned, perseverance, working in teams, ability to problem-solve, creativity that can make all the difference in preparing them for their future. Thank you. Thank you so much for this conversation. [applause] Jackie and I were talking earlier with so many in the room that have been down in the trenches with us for the last 25 or more years that we've been doing this in New Hampshire. And it is so wonderful to have this discussion today that we are having and to have so many people know what early childhood is, know what it means, to have seen that brain development going through from zero to age five and understand the importance of this. And we are so welcome to have this piece. Thank you. [applause] So that concludes our program today, and I just wanted to thank you all very much for coming out to the YMCA of Strafford County and thank Secretary Clinton. [applause]
DANA BASH: Hillary Clinton is campaigning across the country, but she's dropping in this week on some folks you would think she has all locked up, congressional Democrats. But her lunch on Tuesday could be a little bit awkward, thanks to one man, Senator Bernie Sanders, who's been giving Clinton a run for her money on the trail with his huge crowds and his populist message. But when she sat down with CNN's Brianna Keilar for her first national TV interview, Clinton insisted there's no bad blood. CLINTON: Well, first of all, I always thought this would be a competitive race. So, I am happy to have a chance to get out and run my campaign as I see fit and let other candidates do exactly the same. I feel very good about where we are in Iowa. We are signing up thousands of volunteers, people committed to caucus for us. We have a committed supporter in every one of the 1,600 precincts. And one of the things that I learned last time is, it's organize, organize, organize. So I couldn't be happier about my campaign. KEILAR: Senator Sanders has talked about how, if he's president, he would raise taxes. In fact, he said to CNN's Jake Tapper, he would raise them substantially higher than they are today, on big corporations, on wealthy Americans. Would you? CLINTON: Well, I will be laying out my own economic policies. Again, everybody has to run his or her own campaign. And I'm going to be telling the American people what I propose and how I think it will work. And then we'll let voters make up their minds. KEILAR: Are—is raising taxes on the table? CLINTON: I'm going to put out my policies, and I'll other people speak to their policies, because I think we have to both grow the economy faster and fairer, so we have to do what will actually work in the short term, the medium term and the long term. I will be making a speech about my economic proposals on Monday. And then I look forward to the debate about them. KEILAR: We see in our recent poll that nearly six in 10 Americans say they don't believe that you're honest and trustworthy. Do you see any role that you've had in the sentiment that we've seen, where people are questioning whether you're trustworthy? CLINTON: I can only tell you, Brianna, that this has been a theme that has been used against me and my husband for many, many years. And, at the end of the day, I think voters sort it all out. I have great confidence. I trust the American voter. KEILAR: One of the issues that has eroded some trust that we've seen is the issue of your e-mail practices while you were secretary of state. I think there's a lot of people who don't understand what your thought process was on that. So, can you tell me the story of how you decided to delete 33,000 e-mails and how that deletion was executed? CLINTON: Well, let's start from the beginning. Everything I did was permitted. There was no law, there was no regulation, there was nothing that did not give me the full authority to decide how I was going to communicate. Previous secretaries of state have said they did the same thing. And people across the government knew that I used one device. Maybe it was because I am not the most technically capable person and wanted to make it as easy as possible. KEILAR: But you said they—that they did the same thing, that they used a personal server and... CLINTON: Well, personal e-mail. KEILAR: ... when facing a subpoena, deleted e-mails from them? CLINTON: You know, you're starting with so many assumptions that are—I've never had a subpoena. There is nothing—again, let's take a deep breath here. Everything I did was permitted by law and regulation. I had one device. When I mailed anybody in the government, it would go into the government system. Now, I didn't have to turn over anything. I chose to turn over 55,000 pages, because I wanted to go above and beyond what was expected of me, because I knew the vast majority of everything that was official already was in the State Department system. KEILAR: Let's talk now about Republicans. There are so many. [laughter] But, right now, the front-runner... [laughter] CLINTON: It's a big crew. KEILAR: It is a big crew. Right now, the front-runner is Jeb Bush. Can you believe that a quarter-century after your husband was elected, there could be another Bush-Clinton race? CLINTON: Well, we'll see. That's up to, first, the Republicans on his side and the Democrats on my side. What's great about America is anybody can run for president. That is literally true. And you have to go out and you have to do what everybody else does. You have to make your case. You have to have your agenda. You have to raise the money. You have to work really hard. KEILAR: Donald Trump is also creating quite a lot of commotion on the other side. He's a friend of yours, has been over the years. He donated to your Senate campaign, to the Clinton Foundation. What's your reaction to his recent comments that some Mexican immigrants are rapists and criminals? CLINTON: I'm very disappointed in those comments. And I—I feel very bad and very disappointed with him and with the Republican Party for not responding immediately and saying: Enough. Stop it. But they are all in the—you know, in the same general area on immigration. You know, they don't want to provide a path to citizenship. They range across a spectrum of being either grudgingly welcome or hostile toward immigrants. KEILAR: But what about Jeb Bush's approach to that? It's different, certainly, than Donald Trump's and...  [crosstalk] CLINTON: Well, he doesn't—he doesn't believe in a path to citizenship. If he did at one time, he no longer does. KEILAR: Have you given any thought to the woman who should be on the $10 bill? [laughter] CLINTON: You know, I am very torn about it. I want a woman on a bill. I don't know why they picked the $10 bill. Some people are now agitating for the $20 bill. KEILAR: The $20. Do you think it should be the $20? CLINTON: You know, I want a woman on the bill. And I think that it might be easier to change the $20 than it is to change the $10. But we'll see. And I don't like the idea that, as a compromise, you would basically have two people on the same bill. One would be a woman. That sounds pretty second-class to me. So, I think a woman should have her own bill. And it may be more—more appropriate to look at the $20 than the $10. I don't know. We'll see. KEILAR: Secretary Clinton, thank you so much for talking with us. CLINTON: Thank you. My pleasure. Thanks.
CLINTON: Thank you. Thank you so much. Thank you very much, President Van Zant, and thanks to everyone at the New School for welcoming us today. I'm delighted to be back. You know, over the past few months, I have had the opportunity to listen to Americans' concerns about an economy that still isn't delivering for them. It's not delivering the way that it should. It still seems, to most Americans that I have spoken with, that it is stacked for those at the top. But I've also heard about the hopes that people have for their future—going to college without drowning in debt; starting that small business they've always dreamed about; getting a job that pays well enough to support a family and provide for a secure retirement. Previous generations of Americans built the greatest economy and strongest middle class the world has ever known on the promise of a basic bargain: if you work hard and do your part, you should be able to get ahead. And when you get ahead, America gets ahead. But over the past several decades, that bargain has eroded. Our job is to make it strong again. For 35 years, Republicans have argued that if we give more wealth to those at top by cutting their taxes and letting big corporations write their own rules, it will trickle down, it will trickle down to everyone else. Yet every time they have a chance to try that approach, it explodes the national debt, concentrates wealth even more and does practically nothing to help hard-working Americans. Twice now in the past 20 years, a Democratic president has had to come in and clean up the mess left behind. [applause] I think the results speak for themselves. Under President Clinton—I like the sound of that—America saw the longest peacetime expansion in our history. [applause] Nearly 23 million jobs, a balanced budget and a surplus for the future, and most importantly, incomes rose across the board, not just for those already at the top. Eight years later, President Obama and the American people's hard work pulled us back from the brink of depression. President Obama saved the auto industry, imposed new rules on Wall Street and provided health care to 16 million Americans. [applause] Now today—today, as the shadow of crisis recedes and longer-term challenges come into focus, I believe we have to build a growth and fairness economy. You can't have one without the other.  We can't create enough jobs and new businesses without more growth, and we can't build strong families and support our consumer economy without more fairness. We need both. Because while America standing again, we are not yet running the way we should. Corporate profits are at near record highs and Americans are working as hard as ever. But paychecks had nearly budged in real terms. Families today are stretched in so many directions, and so are their budgets. Out of pocket costs of health care, child care, hearing for aging parents, are rising a lot faster than wages. I hear this everywhere I go. A single mom talked about juggling a job and classes at community college while raising three kids. She doesn't expect anything to come easy. But if she got a raise, everything would not be quite so hard. The grandmother who works around the clock providing child care to other people's kids. She's proud of her work, but the pay is fairly enough to live on, especially with the soaring price of her prescription drugs. The young entrepreneur whose dream of buying a bowling alley where he worked as a teenager was nearly derailed by his student debt. If he can grow his business, he can pay off his debt and pay his employees, including himself, more, too. Millions of hardworking Americans tell similar stories. Wages need to rise to keep up with cost, paychecks need to grow. Families who work hard and do their part deserve to get ahead and stay ahead. The defining economic challenge of our time clear. We must raise incomes for hard-working Americans, so they can afford a middle-class life. We must drive steady income growth that lifts up families, and lifts up our country. And that... [applause] And that will be my mission, from the first day I am president to the last. I... [applause] I will get up every day thinking about the families of America, like the family I came from, with a hard-working dad who started a small business and scrimped, and saved, and gave us a good middle-class life. I will be thinking about all the people that I represented in New York and the stories that they told me, and that I worked with them to improve. I will, as your president take on this challenge against the backdrop of major changes in our economy and the global economy that did not start with the Recession and will not end with the recovery. You know, advances in technology and expanding global trade have created new areas of commercial activity and opened new markets for our exports. Too often they are polarizing our economy, benefiting high skilled workers, but displacing and downgrading blue-collar jobs and other mid-level jobs that used to provide solid incomes for millions of Americans. Today's marketplace focuses too much on the short-term, like second to second financial trading, and quarterly earnings reports, and too little on long-term investments. Meanwhile, many Americans are making extra money renting out a small room, designing websites, selling products they design themselves at home, or even driving their own car. This on-demand, or so-called gig economy is creating exciting economies and unleashing innovation. But it is also raising hard questions about work-place protections and what a good job will look like in the future. So, all of these trends are real and none, none is going away. But they do not determine our destiny. The choices we make as a nation matter.  And the choices we make in the years ahead will set the stage for what American life in the middle class and our economy will be like in this century. As president, I will work with every possible partner to turn the tide to make these currents of change start working for us more than against us, to strengthen, not hollow out, the American middle class. Because I think at our best, that's what Americans do. We are problem solvers, not deniers. We don't hide from change; we harness it. The measure of our success must be how much incomes rise for hardworking families, not just for successful CEOs and money managers and not some just arbitrary growth targets untethered to people's lives and livelihoods. [applause] I want to see our economy work for the struggling, the striving and the successful. We're not going to find all the answers we need today in the playbooks of the past, we can't go back to the old policies that failed us before, nor can we just replay the successes. Today is not 1993. It's not 2009. So we need solutions for the big challenges we face now. So today, I'm proposing an agenda to raise incomes for hardworking Americans, an agenda for strong growth, fair growth and long-term growth. Let me begin with strong growth. More growth means more jobs and more new businesses. More jobs give people choices about where to work. And employers have to offer higher wages and better benefits in order to compete with each other to hire new workers and keep the productive ones. That's why economists tell us that getting closer to full employment is crucial for raising incomes. Small businesses create more than 60 percent of new American jobs on net, so they have to be a top priority. I've said I want to be the small-business president, and I mean it. And throughout this campaign, I'm going to be talking about how we empower entrepreneurs with less red tape, easier access to capital, tax relief and simplification. I'll also push for broader business tax reform to spur investment in America, closing those loopholes that reward companies for sending jobs and profits overseas. [applause] And I know it's not always how we think about this, but another engine of strong growth should be comprehensive immigration reform. [applause] I want you to hear this. Bringing millions of hardworking people into the formal economy would increase our gross domestic product by an estimated $700 billion over 10 years. [applause] Then there are the new public investments that will help establish businesses and entrepreneurs, create the next generation of high-paying jobs. You know, when we get Americans moving, we get our country moving. So let's establish an infrastructure bank that can channel more public and private funds... [applause] ... channel those funds to finance world-class airports, railways, roads, bridges and ports. [applause] And let's built those faster broadband networks and make sure there's a greater diversity of providers so consumers have more choice. [applause] And really, there's no excuse not to make greater investments in cleaner renewable energy right now. [applause] Our economy obviously runs on energy, and the time has come to make America the clean-energy superpower.  I advocate that because these investments will create millions of jobs, save us money in the long run and help us meet the threats of climate change. And let's fund the scientific and medical research that spawns innovative companies and creates entire new industries, just as the project to sequence the human genome did in the 1990s and President Obama's initiatives on precision medicine and brain research will do in the coming years. I will set ambitious goals in all of these areas in the months ahead. But today, let me emphasize another key ingredient of strong growth that often goes overlooked and undervalued: breaking down barriers so more Americans participate more fully in the workforce, especially women. [applause] We are in a global competition, as I'm sure you have noticed. And we cant afford to leave talent on the sidelines. But that's exactly what we're doing today. When we leave people out or write them off, we not only shortchange them and their dreams, we shortchange our country and our future. The movement of women into the American workforce over the past 40 years was responsible for more than $3.5 trillion in economic growth. But that progress has stalled. The United States used to rank 7th out of 24 advanced countries in women's labor force participation. By 2013, we had dropped to 19th. That represents a lot of unused potential for our economy and for American families. Studies show that nearly a third of this decline relative to other countries is because they're expanding family-friendly policies like paid leave and we are not. We should be making it easier for Americans to be both good workers and good parents and caregivers. Women who want to work should be able to do so without worrying every day about how they're going to take care of their children or what will happen if a family member gets sick. You know, last year— [applause] —last year while I was at the hospital here in Manhattan, waiting for little Charlotte to make her grand entrance, one of the nurses said, thank you for fighting for paid leave. And we began to talk about it. She sees firsthand what it means for herself and her colleagues as well as for the working parents that she helps take care of. It's time to recognize that quality, affordable childcare is not a luxury. It's a growth strategy. And it's way past time to end the outrage of so many women still earning less than men on the job and women of color making even less. [applause] You know, all this lost money adds up. And for some women, it's thousands of dollars every year. Now I am well aware that for far too long these challenges have been dismissed by some as women's issues. Well, those days are over. [applause] Fair pay and fair scheduling, paid family leave and earned sick days, childcare are essential to our competitiveness and our growth. And we can do this in a way that doesn't impose unfair burdens on businesses, especially small businesses.  As president, I'll fight to put families first, just like I have my entire career. [applause] Now beyond strong growth, we also need fair growth and that will be the second key driver of raising incomes.  The evidence is in. Inequality is a drag on our entire economy. So this is the problem we need to tackle. Now, you may have heard Governor Bush say Americans just need to work longer hours. Well, he must not have met very many American workers. [applause] Let him tell that to the nurse who stands on her feet all day, or the teacher who in that classroom or the trucker who drives all night. Let him tell that to the fast worker marching in the streets for better pay. They do not need a lecture. They need a raise. [applause] The truth is the current rules for our economy do reward some work, like financial trading, for example much more than other work, like actually building and selling things, the work that has always been the backbone of our economy. To get all incomes rising again, we need to strike a better balance. If you work hard, you ought to be a fairly. So, we do have to raise the minimum wage, and implement President Obama's new rules on overtime, and then we have to go further. [applause] I will crack down on bosses who exploit employees by mis-classifying them as contractors or even steal their wages. To make paychecks stretch, we need to take on the major strains on family budgets. I will protect the Affordable Care Act and build on it to lower out-of-pocket health care costs. [applause] And to make prescription drugs more affordable. We will help families look forward to retirement by defending and enhancing Social Security and making it easier to save for the future. Now, many of these proposals are time-tested and more than a little battle scarred. We need new ideas, as well, and one I believe in and will fight for is profit-sharing. Hard-working Americans deserve to benefit from the record corporate earnings they help produce. So, I will produce ways to encourage companies to share profits with their employees. That is good for workers and good businesses. Studies show that profit sharing that gives everyone a stake in the company's success can boost productivity and put money directly into employees' pockets. It's a win-win. Later this week in New Hampshire, I will have more to say about how we do this. Another priority must be reforming our tax code. Now, we hear Republican candidates talk a lot about tax reform. But take a good look at their plans. Senator Rubio's would cut taxes for households making around $3 million a year by almost $240,000, which is way more than three times the earnings of a typical family. Well, that is a sure budget busting giveaway to the super wealthy, and that's the kind of bad economics you are likely to hear from any of the candidates on the other side. I have a different take... [applause] ... guided license principles. First, hard-working families need and deserve tax relief and simplification. Second, those at the top have to pay their fair share. That's why I support the Buffet Rule, which makes sure millionaires do not pay lower rates than their secretaries. I have called for closing the carried interest loophole, that lets wealthy financiers pay an artificially low rate. And let's agree that hugely successful companies that benefit from everything that America has to offer, should not be able to game the system and avoid paying their fair share, especially while companies who can't afford high-priced lawyers and lobbyists end up paying more. [applause] Alongside tax reform, it's time to stand up to efforts across our country to undermine worker bargaining power, which has been proven again and again to drive up wages. Republican governors like Scott Walker have made their names stomping on workers' rights, and practically all the Republican candidates hope to do the same as president. I will fight back against these mean-spirited, misguided attacks. Evidence— [applause] —evidence shows that the decline of unions may be responsible for a third of the increase of inequality among men, so if we want to get serious about raising incomes, we have to get serious about supporting union workers. [applause] And let me just say a word here about trade. The Greek crisis as well as the Chinese stock market have reminded us that growth here at home and growth an ocean away are linked in a common global economy. Trade has been a major driver of the economy over recent decades, but it has also contributed to hollowing out our manufacturing base and many hard-working communities. So we do need to set a high bar for trade agreements. We should support them if they create jobs, raise wages and advance our national security. And we should be prepared to walk away if they don't. To create fair growth, we need to create opportunity for more Americans. I love the saying by Abraham Lincoln who, in many ways, was not only the president who saved our union but the president who understood profoundly the importance of the middle class and the importance of government playing its role in providing opportunities. He talked about giving Americans a fair chance in the race of life. I believe that with all my heart, but I also believe it has to start really early, at birth. High quality early learning, especially in the first five years, can set children on the course for future success and raise lifetime incomes by 25 percent. And— [applause] —and I'm committed to seeing every 4-year-old in America have access to high quality pre-school in the next 10 years. But I want to do more. I want to call for a great outpouring of support from our faith community, our business community, our academic institutions, from philanthropy and civic groups and concerned citizens, to really help parents, particularly parents who are facing a lot of obstacles, to really help prepare their own children in that 0 to 4 age group. Eighty percent of your brain is physically formed by the age of 3. That's why families like mine read, talk and sing endlessly to our granddaughter. I've said that her first words are going to be enough with the reading and the talking and the singing. [laughter] But we do it not only because we love doing it, even though, I'll admit, it's embarrassing, you know, reading a book to a two-week-old or a six-week-old or a 10-week-old, but we do it because we understand it's building her capacity for learning. And the research shows by the time she enters kindergarten, she will have heard 30 million more words than a child from a less advantaged background. Think of what we are losing because we're not doing everything we can to reach out to those families, and we know, again, from so much research here in the United States and around the world that that early help, that mentoring, that intervention to help those often stressed-out young moms understand more about what they can do and to avoid the difficulties that stand in the way of their being able to really get their child off to the best possible start. We also have to invest in our students and our teachers at every level, and in the coming weeks and months, I will lay out specific steps to improve our schools, make college truly affordable and help Americans refinance their student debt. And let's embrace— [applause] —let's embrace the idea of lifelong learning. In an age of technological change, we need to provide pathways to get skills and credentials for new occupations and create online platforms to connect workers to jobs. There are exciting efforts underway and I want to support and scale the ones that show results. As we pursue all these policies, we cant forget our fellow Americans hit so hard and left behind by this changing world from the inner cities to coal country to Indian country. Talent is universal; you find it everywhere. But opportunity is not. There are nearly 6 million young people aged 16 to 24 in America today who are not in school or at work. The numbers for young people of color are particularly staggering. A quarter of young black men and nearly 15 percent of all Latino youth cannot find a job. We've got to do a better way of coming up to match the growing middle class incomes we want to generate with more pathways into the middle class. I firmly believe that the best anti-poverty program is a job but that's hard to say if there aren't enough jobs for people that were trying to help lift themselves out of poverty. That's why Ive called for reviving the new markets tax credit and empowerment zones to create greater incentives to invest in poor and remote areas. When— [applause] —when all Americans have the chance to study hard, work hard and share in our country's prosperity, that's fair growth. It's what I've always believed in and it's what I will fight for as president. Now the third key driver of income, alongside strong growth and fair growth, must be long-term growth. Too many pressures in our economy push us toward short-termism. Many business leaders see this. They've talked to me about it. One has called it the problem of quarterly capitalism. They say everything is focused on the next earnings report or the short-term share price and the result is too little attention on the sources of long-term growth: research and development, physical capital and talent. Net business investment, which includes things like factories, machines and research labs, have declined as a share of the economy. In recent years some of our biggest companies have spent more than half their earnings to buy back their own stock and another third or more to pay dividends. That doesn't leave a lot left to raise pay or invest in the workers who made those profits possible or to make new investments necessary to ensure a company's future success. These trends need to change. And I believe many business leaders are eager to embrace their responsibilities, not just to today's share price but also to workers, communities and ultimately to our country and, indeed, our planet. Now I'm not talking about charity; I'm talking about clear-eyed capitalism. Many companies have prospered by improving wages and training their workers that then yield higher productivity, better service and larger profits. Now it's easy to try to cut costs by holding down or even decreasing pay and other investments to inflate quarterly stock prices but I would argue that's bad for business in the long run and it's really bad for our country. Workers are assets. Investing in them pays off; higher wages pay off. Training pays off. To help more companies do that, I proposed a $1,500 tax credit for every worker they train and hire.  And I will soon be proposing a new plan to reform capital gains taxes to reward longer-term investments that create jobs, more than just quick trades. [applause] I will also propose reforms to help CEOs and shareholders alike to focus on the next decade rather than just the next day. [applause] Making sure stock buybacks aren't being used only for an immediate boost in share prices; empowering outside investors who want to build companies, but discouraging cut and run shareholders who act more like old-school corporate raiders. And nowhere will the shift from short-term to long-term be more important than on Wall Street. As a former senator from New York, I know firsthand the role that Wall Street can and should play in our economy, helping main street grow and prosper, and boosting new companies that make America more competitive globally. But as we all know in the years before the crash, financial firms piled risk upon risk, and regulators in Washington either could not or would not keep up. I was alarmed by this gathering storm and called for addressing the risks of derivatives, cracking down on subprime mortgages and improving financial oversight. Under President Obama's leadership we have imposed tough new rules that deal with some of the challenges on Wall Street. Those rules have been under assault by Republicans in Congress and those running for president. I will fight back against these attacks and protect the reforms we have made. We can do that, and still ease burdens on community banks to encourage responsible loans to local people and businesses they know and trust. We also have to go beyond Dodd-Frank. Too many of our major financial institutions are still too complex and too risky. And the problems are not limited to the big banks that get all the headlines. Serious risks are emerging from institutions in the so-called shadow banking system, including hedge funds, high-frequency traders, non-bank finance companies. So many new kinds of entities, which receive little oversight at all. Stories of misconduct by individuals and institutions in the financial industry are shocking. HSBC allowing drug cartels to launder money, five major banks pleading guilty to felony charges for conspiring to manipulate currency exchange and interest rates. There can be no justification or tolerance for this kind of criminal behavior. [applause] And while institutions have paid large fines and in some cases admitted guilt, too often it has seemed that the human beings responsible get off with limited consequences or none at all, even when they have already pocketed the gains. This is wrong, and on my watch it will change. Over the course... [applause] ... over the course of this campaign, I will offer plans to rein in excessive risks on Wall Street and ensure that stock markets work for everyday investors, not just high-frequency traders and those with the best or fastest connections. I will appoint and empower regulators who understand that too big to fail is still too big a problem. We will ensure... [applause] We will ensure that no firm is too complex to manage or oversee. And we will also process individuals as well as firms when they commit fraud or other criminal wrongdoing. [applause] When the government recovers money from corporations or individuals for harming the public, it should go into a separate trust fund to benefit the public. It could, for example, help modernize infrastructure or even be returned directly to taxpayers. Now, reform is never easy, but we've done it before in our country, and we have to get it right this time.  And yes, we need leadership from the financial industry and across the private sector to join with us. Two years ago, the head of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, Terry Duffy, published an op-ed in the Wall Street Journal that really caught my attention. He wrote, and I quote, "I'm concerned that those of us in financial services have forgotten who they serve and that the public knows it. Some Wall Streeters can too easily slip into regarding their work as a kind of moneymaking game divorced from concerns of the Main Street," unquote. I think we should listen to Terry Duffy. Of course, long-term growth is only possible if the public sector steps up as well. So it's time to end the era of budget brinkmanship and stop careening from one self-inflicted crisis to another. It's time to stop having debates over the small stuff and focus how we're going to tackle the big stuff together. How do we respond to technological change in a way that creates more good jobs than it displaces or destroys? Can we sustain a boom in advanced manufacturing? What are the best ways to nurture startups outside the successful corridors, like Silicon Valley? Questions like these demand thoughtful and mature debate from our policymakers and government, from our leaders in the private sector, our economists, our academics, others who can come together to the table and on behalf of America perform their patriotic duty to make sure our economy keeps working and our middle class keeps growing. [applause] So government has to be smarter, simpler, more focused itself on long-term investments than short-term politics and be a better partner to cities, states and the private sector. Washington has to be a better steward of America's tax dollars and Americans' trust. And please, let's get back to making decisions that rely on evidence more than ideology. [applause] That's what I'll do as president. I will seek out and welcome any good idea that is actually based on reality. [laughter] [applause] I want to have principled and pragmatic and progressive policies that really move us forward together, and I will propose ways to ensure that our fiscal outlook is sustainable, including by continuing to restrain health care costs, which remain one of the key drivers of long-term deficits. I will make sure Washington learns from how well local governments, businesses and nonprofits are working together in successful cities and towns across America. You know, passing legislation is not the only way to drive progress. As president, I will use the power to convene, connect and collaborate to build partnerships that actually get things done, because above all, we have to break out of the poisonous partisan gridlock and focus on the long-term needs of our country. [applause] I confess, maybe it's the grandmother in me, but I believe that part of public service is planting trees under whose shade you'll never sit, and the vision I've laid out here today for strong growth, fair growth and long-term growth all working together will get incomes rising again, will help working families get ahead and stay ahead. That is the test of our time. And I'm inviting everyone to please join me to do your part. That's what great countries do. That's what our country always has done. We rise to challenges. It's not about left, right or center; it's about the future versus the past. I'm running for president to build an America for tomorrow, not yesterday, an America built on growth and fairness, an America where if you do your part, you will reap the rewards, where we don't leave anyone behind. [applause] Thank you all. Thank you. I just want to leave you with one more thought. I want every child, not just the granddaughter of a former president or former secretary of state, but every child to be able to reach for her God-given potential. Please join me in that mission—let's do it together. Thank you all so much. [applause]
CLINTON: Thank you so much, Strobe. Thank you so much. [applause] Well let me thank you, Strobe. It's great to be back at Brookings and there are a lot of long-time friends and colleagues who perch here at Brookings. Obviously, including Strobe and Martin, who I'll speak to in a minute. Also Bob Einhorn and Tammy Wittes. This institution has hosted many important conversation over the years and I appreciate Strobe's reference to the event last night and the continuing dialogue about urgent issues facing our nation and the world. That's what brings me here today, back to Brookings, to talk about the question we're all grappling with: how to prevent Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon and more broadly, how to protect ourselves and our allies from the full range of threats that Iran poses. The stakes are high and there are no simple of perfectly satisfying solutions. So these questions, and in particular the merits of the nuclear deal recently reached with Iran, have divided people of good will and raised hard issues on both sides. Here is how I see it. Either we move forward on the path of diplomacy and seize this chance to block Iran's path to a nuclear weapon or, we turn down a more dangerous path, leading to a far-less certain and riskier future. That's why I support this deal. I support it as part of a larger strategy toward Iran. By now, the outcome in Congress is no longer in much doubt. So we've got to start looking made to what comes next, enforcing the deal, deterring Iran and its proxies and strengthening our allies. These will be my goals as president and today I want to talk about how I would achieve them. Let me start by saying I understand the skepticism so many feel about Iran. I too am deeply concerned about Iranian aggression and the need to confront it. It's a ruthless, brutal regime that has the blood of Americans, many others and including its own people on its hands. Its political rallies resound with cries of, "Death to America." Its leaders talk about wiping Israel off the face of the map, most recently just yesterday, and foment terror against it. There is absolutely no reason to trust Iran. Now, Vice President Cheney may hope that the American people will simply forget, but the truth is, by the time President Obama took office and I became secretary of State, Iran was racing toward a nuclear capability. They had mastered the nuclear fuel cycle, meaning that they had the material, scientists and technical know how to create material for nuclear weapons. They had produced and installed thousands of centrifuges, expanded their secret facilities, established a robust uranium enrichment program and defied their international obligations under the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty. And they haven't suffered many consequences. I voted for sanctions again and again as a senator from New York. But they weren't having much effect. Most of the world still did business with Iran. We needed to step up our game. So President Obama and I pursued a two-prong strategy: pressure and engagement. We made it clear that the door to diplomacy was open if Iran answered the concerns of the international community in a serious and credible way. We simultaneously launched a comprehensive campaign to significantly raise the cost of Iranian defiance. We systematically increased our military capabilities in the region, deepening our cooperation with partners and sending more fire power, an additional aircraft carrier, battleship, strike aircraft and the most advanced radar and missile defense systems available. Meanwhile, I traveled the world capital by capital, leader by leader, twisting arms to help build the global coalition that produced some of the most effective sanctions in history. With President Obama's leadership, we worked with Congress and the European Union to cut Iran off from the world's economic and financial system. And one by one, we persuaded energy-hungry consumers of Iranian oil, like India and South Korea, to cut back. Soon, Iran's tankers sat rusting in port. Its economy was collapsing. These new measures were effective because we made them global. American sanctions provided the foundation, but Iran didn't really feel the heat until we turned this into an international campaign so biting that Iran had no choice but to negotiate. They could no longer play off one country against another; they had no place to hide. So they started looking for a way out. I first visited Oman to speak with the sultan of Oman in January of 2011, went back later that year. The sultan helped set up a secret back channel. I sent one of my closest aids as part of a small team to begin talks with the Iranians in secret. Negotiations began in earnest after the Iranian election in 2013. First, the bilateral talks led by Deputy Secretary Bill Burns and Jake Sullivan that led to the interim agreement, then the multilateral talks led by Secretary John Kerry, Secretary Ernie Moniz and Undersecretary Wendy Sherman. Now there's a comprehensive agreement on Iran's nuclear program. Is it perfect? Well, of course not. No agreement like this ever is. But is a strong agreement? Yes, it is. And we absolutely should not turn it down. The merits of the deal have been well-argued, so I won't go through them in great detail here. The bottom line is that it accomplishes the major goals we set out to achieve. It blocks every pathway for Iran to get a bomb, and it gives us better tools for verification and inspection and to compel rigorous compliance.  Without a deal, Iran's breakout time, how long they need to produce enough material for a nuclear weapon, would shrink to a couple of months. With a deal, that breakout time stretches to a year, which means that if Iran cheats, we'll know it, and we'll have time to respond decisively. Without a deal, we would have no credible inspections of Iran's nuclear facilities. With a deal, we'll have unprecedented access; we'll be able to monitor every aspect of their nuclear program. Now, some have expressed concern that certain nuclear restrictions expire after 15 years. And we need to be vigilant about that, which I'll talk more about in a moment. But other parts are permanent, including Iran's obligations under the Non-proliferation Treaty and their commitment to enhanced inspections under the additional protocol. Others have expressed concern that it could take up to 24 days to gain access to some of Iran's facilities when we suspect cheating. I'd be the first to say that this part of the deal is not perfect. Although the deal does allow for daily access to enrichment facilities and monitoring of the entire nuclear fuel cycle. It's important to focus on that, because being able to monitor the supply chain is critical to what we will find out and how we will be able to respond. But our experts tell us that even with delayed access to some places, this deal does the job. Microscopic nuclear particles remain for years and years. They are impossible to hide. That's why Secretary Moniz, a nuclear physicist, has confidence in this plan. And some are suggested we just go back to the negotiating table and get a better, unspecified deal. I can certainly understand why that may sound appealing, but as someone who started these talks in the first place, and built our global coalition piece by piece, I can assure you it is not realistic. Plus, if we walk away now, our capacity to sustain and enforce sanctions will be severely diminished. We will be blamed, not the Iranians. So if we were to reject this agreement, Iran would be poised to get nearly everything it wants without giving up a thing. No restrictions on their nuclear program. No real warning if Tehran suddenly rushes toward a bomb. And the International Sanctions regime would fall apart, so no more economic consequences for Iran, either. Those of use who have been out there on the diplomatic front lines know that diplomacy is not the pursuit of perfection; it's the balancing of risk. And on balance, the far riskier course right now would be to walk away. Great powers can't just junk agreements and expect the rest of the world to go along with us. We need to be reasonable and consistent, and keep our word, especially when we are trying to lead a coalition. That is how we will make this and future deals work. But it is not enough to say, "yes," to the deal. Of course it isn't.We have to say, yes, and—yes, and we will enforce it with vigor and vigilance. Yes, and we will embed it in a broader strategy to confront Iran's bad behavior in the region. Yes, and we will begin from day one to set the conditions, so Iran knows it will never get a nuclear weapon, not during the term of the agreement, not after, not ever. We need to be clear. And I think we have to make that very clear to Iran about what we expect from them. This is not the start of some larger diplomatic opening and we shouldn't accept that this deal will lead to broader changes in their behavior. That shouldn't be a promise for proceeding, instead we need to be prepared for three scenarios. First, Iran tries to cheat, something it's been quite willing to do in the past. Second, Iran tries to wait us out, perhaps it waits to move for 15 years when some, but not all restrictions expire. And third, Iran ramps up the dangerous behavior in the region, including its support for terrorist groups like Hamas and Hezbollah. I believe the success of this deal has a lot to do with how the next president grapples with these challenges. So let me tell you what I would do. My starting point will be one of distrust. You remember President Reagan's line about the Soviets: Trust but verify? My approach will be distrust and verify. We should anticipate that Iran will test the next president, they'll want to see how far they can bend the rules. That won't work if I'm in the white house. I will hold the line against Iranian noncompliance, that means penalties even for small violations, keeping our allies on board, but being willing to snapback sanctions into place unilaterally if we have to, working with congress to close any gaps in the sanctions. Right now members of congress are offering proposals to that affect and I think the current administration should work with them to see whether there are additional steps that could be taken. Finally it means insuring that the IAEA has the resources it needs from finances to personnel to equipment to hold Iran's feet to the fire. The most important thing we can do to keep Iran from cheating or trying to wait us out is to shaped Iranian expectations right from the start. The Iranians and the world need to understand that we will act decisively if we need to. So here is my message to Iran's leaders, The United States will never allow you to acquire a nuclear weapon. As president, I will take whatever action is necessary to protect the united states and our allies, I will not hesitate to take military action if Iran attempts to obtain a nuclear weapon, and I will set up my successor to be able to credibly make the same pledge. We will make clear to Iran that our commitment to prevention will not waver depending on who is in office, it's permanent. Should it become necessary in the future having exhausted peaceful alternatives to turn to military force, we will have preserved and in some cases enhanced our capacity to act. And because we have proven our commitment to diplomacy first, the world will more likely join us. Then there is the broader issue of countering Iran's bad behavior across the region. Taking nuclear-weapons out of the equation is crucial because an Iran with nuclear weapons is so much more dangerous, than an Iran without them. But even without nuclear weapons, we still see Iran's fingerprints on nearly every conflict across the Middle East. They support bad actors from Syria, to Lebanon, to Yemen. They vow to destroy Israel. And that's worth saying again. They vow to destroy Israel. We can not ever take that lightly, particularly when Iran ships and advanced missiles to Hezbollah and the ayatollah outlines an actual strategy for eliminating Israel, or talks about how Israel won't exist in 25 years just like he did today. And in addition to the malicious activity they already underwrite, we have got to anticipate that Iran could use some of the economic relief they get from this deal to pay for even more. So as President I will raise the costs for their actions and confront them across the board. My strategy will be based on five strong pillars. First, I will deepen America's unshakeable commitment to Israel's security, including our long standing tradition of guaranteeing Israel's qualitative military edge. I'll increase support for Israeli rocket and missile defenses and for intelligence sharing. I'll sell Israel the most sophisticated fire aircraft ever developed. The F-35. We'll work together to develop and implement better tunnel detection technology to prevent arms smuggling and kidnapping as well as the strongest possible missile defense system for Northern Israel, which has been subjected to Hezbollah's attacks for years. Second, I will reaffirm that the Persian Gulf is a region of vital interest to the United States. We do not want any of Iran's neighbors to develop or acquire a nuclear weapon's program either. So we want them to feel and be secure. I will sustain a robust military presence in the region, especially our air and naval forces. We'll keep the Strait of Hormuz open. We'll increase security cooperation with our Gulf allies, including intelligence sharing, military support and missile defense to ensure they can defend against Iranian aggression. Even if that takes the form of cyberattacks or other non-traditional threats. Iran should understand that the United States and I as President, will not stand by as our Gulf allies and partners are threatened. We will act. Third, I will be a coalition to counter Iran's proxies, particularly Hezbollah. That means enforcing and strengthening the rules prohibiting the transfer of weapons to Hezbollah. Looking at new ways to choke off their funding and pressing our partners to treat Hezbollah as the terrorist organization that it is. It's time to eliminate the false distinction that some still make between the supposed political and military wings. If you're part of Hezbollah, you're part of a terrorist organization, plain and simple. Beyond Hezbollah, I'll crack down on the shipment of weapons to Hamas. And push Turkey and Qatar to end their financial support. I'll press our partners in the region to prevent aircrafts and ships owned by companies linked to Iran's revolutionary guard from entering their territories, and urge our partners to block Iranian plans from entering their airspace on their way to Yemen and Syria. Across the board, I will vigorously enforce and strengthen, if necessary, other American sanctions on Iran and its revolutionary guard for its sponsorship of terrorism, its ballistic missile program and other destabilizing activities.  I'll enforce and strengthen, if necessary, our restrictions on sending arms to Iran and from Iran to bad actors like Syria, and I'll impose these sanctions on everyone involved in these activities, whether they're in Iran or overseas. This will be a special imperative, as some of the U.N. sanctions lapse, so the U.S. and our partners have to step up. Fourth, I'll stand, as I always have, against Iran's abuses at home, from its detention of political prisoners, to its crack down on freedom of expression, including online. Its inhumane policies hold back talented and spirited people. Our quarrel is not and never has been that the Iranian people. They'd have a bright future, hopeful future if they weren't held back by their leaders. As I've said before, I think we were too restrained in our support of the protests in June 2009 and in our condemnation of the government crack down that followed. That won't happen again. We will enforce, and if need be, broaden our human rights sanction and I will not rest until every single American detained or missing in Iran is home. Fifth, just to the nuclear agreement needs to be embedded in a broader Iran policy. Our broader Iran policy needs to be embedded in a comprehensive regional strategy that promotes stability and counters extremism. Iran, like ISIS, benefits from chaos and strife. It exploits other countries' weaknesses and the best defense against Iran are the countries and governments being strong, that they can provide security and economic opportunity to their own people and they must have the tools to push back on radicalization and extremism. Helping countries get there will take time and strategic discipline, but it's crucial that the United States leads this effort. I will push for renewed diplomacy to solve the destructive regional conflicts that Iran fuels. We have to bring sufficient pressure on Assad to force a political solution in Syria, including a meaningful increase in our efforts to train and equip the moderate Syrian opposition, something I called for early in the conflict, and the United States must lead in assisting those who have been uprooted by conflict, especially the millions of Syrian refugees now beseeching the world to help them. As Pope Francis reminded us, this is an international problem that demands an international response, and the United States must help lead that response. That's who we are, and that's what we do. So our strategy needs to cover all these bases, Iran's nuclear ambitions and its support of terrorism, its hatred of Israel and its cruelty towards its citizens, its military resources and its economic strengths and weaknesses. We need to be creative, committed and vigilant, and on every front, we need to keep working closely with our friends and partners. On that note, let me just spend a minute speaking about the serious concerns that Israel's leaders have about this deal. Israel has every reason to be alarmed by a regime that both denies its existence and seeks its destruction.  I would not support this agreement for one second if I thought it put Israel in greater danger. I believe in my core that Israel and America must stand side by side, and I—I will always stand by Israel's right to defend itself, as I always have.  I believe this deal and a joint strategy for enforcing it makes Israel safer. I say that with humility. I'm not Israeli. I don't know what it's like to live under constant threat from your neighbors in a country where the margin for error is so thin. I know that my saying this deal makes you safer won't alleviate the very real fears of the Israeli people. But I have stood for Israeli security for a very long time. It was one of my bedrock principles as secretary of state. It's why I supported stronger defense systems, like the Iron Dome anti-rocket defense system, which proved so effective in protecting Israeli lives during the conflicts of 2012 and last summer, that's why I've worked closely with Israel to advance the two-state vision of a Jewish and Democratic Israel with secure and recognized borders, and it's why I believe we should expedite negotiations of a long-term military assistance agreement with Israel. Let's not wait until 2017 when the current deal expires; let's get it done this year. I would invite the Israeli prime minister to the White House during my first month in office to talk about all of these issues and to set us on a course of close, frequent consultation right from the start, because we both rely on each other for support as partners, allies and friends. This isn't just about policy for me; it is personal. As president, I'm committed to shoring up and strengthening the relationship between our countries. We have had honest disagreements about this deal. Now is the time to come together. Now is the time to remember what unites us and build upon it. And so I know well that the same forces that threaten Israel threaten the United States. And to the people of Israel, let me say, you'll never have to question whether we're with you. The United States will always be with you. There have also been honest disagreements about the nuclear deal here at home. Smart, serious people can see issues like these differently, like my friend, Chuck Schumer, who's going to be an excellent leader in the Senate. I respect the skepticism that he and others feel, and I respect differences of opinion and people who advocate vigorously for their beliefs. But I have a harder time respecting those who approach an issue as serious as this with unserious talk, especially anyone running to be president of the United States. Several Republican candidates boast they'll tear up this agreement in 2017, more than a year after it's been implemented. That's not leadership; that's recklessness. It would set us right down the very dangerous path we have worked so hard to avoid. I'm looking forward to a—a robust debate about foreign policy in this campaign. Where we have disagreements, we should lay them out, like if American ground forces in Iraq should engage in direct combat, as Scott Walker wants, or if we should keep Cuba closed, as Marco Rubio and Jeb Bush want. Let's debate these issues.  But let's debate them on the basis of facts, not fear. Let's resist denigrating the patriotism or loyalty of those who disagree with us, and let's avoid at all costs undermining America's credibility abroad. That only makes us weaker, and I am going to call it out whenever I see it. I spent four years representing America abroad as America—secretary of state was one of the greatest privileges of my life, and knowing my fellow Americans were counting on the and rooting for me, not as Democrats, not as Republicans, but as Americans, meant to great deal. We are all one team, the American team and that doesn't change, no matter how much we may disagree. I can tell you from personal experience we are stronger overseas, when we are united at home. So we simply have to find a way to work together better than we have been doing. There is a lot Democrats and Republicans can and should agree on. The United States should lead in the Middle East, we can agree on that. We should stand by our friends against Iranian aggression, we can agree on that, too. I believe the plan I have laid out today is one that all Americans could endorse, and I hope they will. The next president will face threats from many quarters, from those we see today like terrorism from ISIS, aggressiveness from Putin, pandemics like Ebola, to all those we can't predict yet. We need a leader who has a strong vision for the future, and the skill and determination to get us there. We can't stop the world from changing, but we can help to shape those changes, and we can do that by beating with strength, smarts and unyielding commitment to our values. You know, I saw that when I was first lady, senator, secretary of state, that when America leads with principal and purpose, other people and governments are eager to join us. No country comes close to matching our advantages, the strength of our economy, the skill of our work force, tradition of innovation, our unmatched network of alliances and partnership. So, we are poised to remain that world's most admired and powerful nation for of long time, if we make this smart choices and practice smart leadership. That is what I will try to do as your president, and I believe as strongly as ever that our best days are ahead of us, and that America's greatest contributions to the world are yet to come. Thank you all very much. [applause] INDYK: Well, thank you, very much, Madam Secretary. I was wondering what we could call this speech, and it occurred to me at the end it would be, "From Hard Choices to Smart Choices." Right? Or the "Yes, And" speech. Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to this second part of the event with Secretary Clinton, which is little a conversation that I will have with her, and then we'll take questions from the audience. I wanted to start by saying, number one, it's a very clear and very strong speech. And if I had to summarize the basic elements of it, the message to Iran is, we will enforce, we will confront you when you try to destabilize the region, and we will deter you if you try to go for a nuclear weapon some time down the line.  And I wonder how you navigate what is a certain, unspoken tension between the fact that you're going to be taking a hard line against some of the—some of the destabilizing and nefarious activities of the Iranians, and at the same time, this agreement puts the United States into a partnership with Iran in terms of implementing it. So how do you deal with that—that tension, the Iranians may feel, "Hey, we're giving up all these things to do with our nuclear program and this is what we're going to get in return," is—is very tough American response? CLINTON: Well, I don't see Iran as our partner in implementing the agreement. I believe that Iran is the subject of the agreement, that it now faces obligations that frankly, in many instances, it faced before the agreement and that they have a—signed an agreement where they are committing themselves to fulfill the terms of the agreement. The agreement will be enforced not by Iran, the agreement will be enforced by the rest of the negotiators, the other countries plus the IAEA, and it will be and is intended to be quite burdensome and intrusive into Iran. Now, maybe they believe that having signed the agreement, they can somehow avoid the consequences of the inspections and the other requirements, but I think they understand very well they're at the starting line, there are these demands that they are supposed to fulfill, there is a sequencing of you know, lifting of sanctions and other kinds of benefits that they receive in return for they're having taken the action required. And I think they are, if anything, probably counting on the world led by the United States being distracted, being diverted, getting tired, not having the staying power to consistently enforce the agreement and hold Iran accountable, and I for one, want to make clear to them that that is not going to happen, that we will take seriously every aspect of this agreement and we will expect them to comply and there will be consequences if they do not. INDYK: When you called for a—a regional strategy and outlined the—the elements of that, it really seems to come down to when you say this in the speech, Syria and what happens in Syria where Iran is very invested in the Assad regime. Does a regional strategy on your watch mean taking down the Assad regime? CLINTON: Well, you know, Martin, it's not only Iran that is invested, we're—obviously it's now becoming public, we are learning much more about Russian investment, Russian troops on the ground. It may very well be opening the door to greater Russian involvement. There is no doubt that Russian has—Russia has been a principal funder and supplier throughout this entire terrible episode. So we are facing the collapse of Syria, the survival thus far of the Assad regime, although it clearly has much less to govern than it did when this started, the open ungoverned areas that are hosting terrorist groups and the continuing commitment from Iran and Russia to propping up Assad. So I—you know, I was the principal negotiator on the Geneva 2012 agreement, which Russia signed onto, which laid out a pathway to a political solution. It wasn't very long until Russia reneged on what they had signed. But I think it still provides a very credible framework threat from the terrorist groups and that the chaos in Syria can destabilize the region in ways that are bad for Iran. And therefore the higher the pressure is for some kind of reaction to what is going on inside Syria, and certainly the efforts that ISIS is making to take even more and hold territory in Iraq directly against what Iran sees as its interest, the continuing destabilization along the Lebanese border, there's all kinds of reasons why Iran is going to have to confront this instability. So I think we—my view on this is we have to be talking, and pushing on, and raising the cost for Iran and for Russia all the time. Now, if Putin were sitting here—which is hard to imagine, but if he were—I should ask Strobe—Strobe is the expert. He would say, "We're fighting terrorism, that's what we are doing. There may be a way to begin to join those efforts." INDYK: So—the—I remember well a speech that you gave when you were secretary of state, in which you warned the Gulf leaders about policies that were based on sand. President Obama in talking about the concerns of Iran's destabilizing activity in the region said, "Look, we can help protect our Gulf Arab allies from external threats. the problem is how to protect them from internal threats." And you have been clear again that you will do that in terms of protecting against those threats, but I wanted—I wonder how you deal with that continuing challenge? CLINTON: Well, you know very well it is a difficult one. I apologize for my voice I'm suffering under massive allergy assault. Yes, Republican histamines are everywhere. [laughter] So—you know, Martin, this is one of the biggest problems we face, nobody can deny that much of the extremism in the world today is the direct result of policies and funding undertaken by the Saudi government and individuals. We would be foolish not to recognize that, I think increasingly they would be mistaken not to recognize that. You can never be more extreme than the next extremist and I think they face some very serious internal problems, as do the other regimes. I am not sure they are convinced of that. I am not sure they believe that they have to figure out different ways of dealing with their own population and cooperating with each other, and cutting off funding, and exporting troublesome imams to elsewhere. But I think you have to be constantly beating that drum with them, and maybe now, given the rise of ISIS and the very clear threat they feel from, you know, Iranian activities in the Gulf that maybe there's an openness there. I know that the king was here last week, had a chance to, you know, meet with the president. So perhaps there's more of an opportunity for a candid dialogue than we've had in the past. However, having said that, I still think we have to do what we need to do to defend them because the alternatives are hardly more promising. INDYK: Israel. You—you've made a very clear effort in your speech to say that, "It's time for healing, it's time to come together." And when you're President that you would have the Prime Minister there in your first month. And that's very consistent I think as you said in your speech with your approach which has always been as I know, to put your arm around Prime Minister Netanyahu or rather... CLINTON: Or any Prime Minister. INDYK: Thank you from the Gurney Press. [laughter] And—and, as you know that's a policy I support too. But some of my friends in Israel recently have said, "That's not the way to deal with us, we need tough love." Which is the alternative you know? Instead of rewarding bad behavior which you should be really speaking tough—more toughly to us. Well, how do you respond to that? CLINTON: Well I think there's a lot of room for tough love, particularly in private and behind you know, closed doors. As I write in my book, you know, certainly Prime Minister Netanyahu and I have had very rigorous conversations that have gone on in person and over the phone. But I—I just don't think it's a particularly productive approach for the United States to take because in large measure, it opens the door to everybody else to delegitimize Israel to, you know, pile on in ways that are not good for the—the strength and stability, not just of Israel obviously but of the region. And so, in the absence of you know, some kind of greater goal that we were trying to achieve by doing that I just don't think that is the smartest approach. INDYK: All right. Let's go to your questions. I would ask you please to identify yourself and make sure that there's a question mark at the—at the end of your question. Robin Wright ? CLINTON: Hi, Robin. QUESTION: Thank you. Robin Wright , U.S. Institute of Peace and former Brookings scholar. Madam Secretary, you talked about how you would use American muscle to contain Iran. Can you tell us how you might use the new diplomatic channel to engage Iran on issues whether it's support for extremist groups or specifically dealing with the crisis in Syria. Would you be willing to use that diplomatic channel to engage Iran? CLINTON: Yes, I would, Robin. And I—and I would because I think that we have to attempt to do that, you know?  When I first went to Oman in January of 2011, we didn't know whether any effort at some kind of secret channel would pay off. We still had the P5-plus-1 that was going on and we knew that eventually whatever the United States did would have to merge into the international approach. But we had to begin to explore it. And we did. And we explored it over that summer. That's when we had the first, you know, visit to discuss anything could be possible. It takes awhile, as you know so well, being such an expert in this region, to figure out who's at the table, what the conversation's about, how seriously it will be taken, who's backing you up. And so, then when the—the talks actually started, just in the Iranian-American channel with Bill Burns and Jake Sullivan and Bob Einhorn was also involved. It was—it was exploratory and it laid down some of the—the ground rules that we were looking for, and then eventually it was merged into the larger P5-plus-1 once there was a change in government in Iran and there was some real seriousness of effort. So with respect to the other issues, I—I—I have very clearly, in the public arena, seen the Iranians at the highest levels reject any such discussion. They don't want to talk about Yemen, they don't want to talk about anything other than the nuclear agreement. Now that was a strategic decision we made back then. You know, number one, it appeared to us in the early discussions with them, trying to figure out how to proceed. They wanted to talk about everything as a way to get some items on the table to trade off for the nuclear agreement, so that they would not have to make, perhaps, as many concessions as we were expecting them to make. That's why we kept very focused on just the nuclear program. We also had the continuing challenge, and it would be even in this instance, of our friends in the Gulf not wanting us to talk about anything that affected them in a bilateral channel with the Iranians, and you can understand why. I mean, they—you know, if they weren't going to be at the table, they didn't want the United States talking about Yemen or talking about anything else of interest, of vital interest in their views to them. So if there were a way to construct such a—a channel, I would be open to it, but I'm just laying out some of the difficulties of us being able to do that on this suite of other issues that are complex that touch many of the—the region's vital interests. And—and I think when it comes to Syria, we have historically not wanted to talk to Iran about Syria because we knew Iran was basically the principal supporter, propper up if you will, of Assad and we wanted to get the rest of the international community in harness to have a set of expectations and demands before we brought Iran in. So we have to—you know, we have to readjust this all the time. Just as I said, diplomacy is the balancing of risk, it's also the—the constant evaluation of where the opportunities are, where the openings are, what possibly could happen now that didn't happen before. So I'm open but I am very sober about how it would have to be constructed and what it would actually cover and who would have to be either at the table or you know, in the—in the first chair behind, so that they didn't feel that they were being left out or negotiated over. QUESTION: [inaudible] CLINTON: Here comes your microphone. QUESTION: Thanks for the microphone. QUESTION: [off-mike] CLINTON: So I think that's a very—it's an important questions. I don't know if you could hear the question. But it was—it was aimed at, what could you do to up the cost on Russia, for example, to be a more productive partner in seeking a solution? And how would we do more to—as I understood what you said, you know, work with our European partners on these securities issues that are challenging Europe? And we see that everyday with the refugees because it's humanitarian but it's also a security challenge as well? Well, you know, I—I have been—I remain convinced that we need a concerted effort to really up the costs on Russia, and in particular on Putin. I think we have not done enough. I am in the category of people who wanted us to do more in response to the annexation of Crimea and the continuing destabilization of Ukraine. I understand the hesitation, not only in our country but most importantly, in Europe. The sanctions came out of the all discussions and you know, maybe to some extent they have had you know, some impact. I think the falling oil price has had more impact and we've got to figure out how we you know, combine both in looking at ways to put more—to up the costs, to put more pressure on Putin. I think it's one of the long term security challenges that United States, Europe, and especially NATO face. And I don't think we can dance around it very much longer. I mean, we all wish it wasn't the case. We all wish it would go away. We all wish that Putin would choose to modernize his country and move toward the west, instead of you know, sinking himself deeper into you know, historical roots of czar-like behavior and intimidation along borders, and projecting Russian power in places like Syria and elsewhere. But I think the jury is in, I think that he intends to continue to do what he is doing and go as far as he can get away with. And I believe that we've got to regroup—we've got to regroup quickly, because I worry very much about what's happening in Syria right now. Troops on the ground to allegedly protect military supplies. What is Russia's real objective? You know, the stated objective, the public objective, to fight terrorism, has always been their rationale. Why did they support Assad? Because after Assad there would be terrorism. Now, obviously if we had a different approach from the beginning working together we might've avoided this. We might've actually help to midwife a political transition. So I think we've got to spend a lot more time. All the—you know, all the Russian experts that you know, that thought that their work was done after the fall of the Berlin Wall, I hope that they will be dusting off their materials and I'm looking right at Strobe Talbott, and you know, get back in the game with us. Because, I think Russia's objectives are to stymie and to confront and to undermine American power whenever and wherever they can. I don't think there's much—you know, I don't think there's much to be surprised about that.So where we can work with them? You know, that's one of the—you know, one of the criticisms that sometimes comes from the right, the Republicans. You know, "What did the reset ever accomplish?" Well, Medvedev was president actually quite a lot. We did the New START agreement. We got cooperation on Iran because when we got the Security Council to pass the sanctions that we had been working so hard on, that was under Medvedev in June of 2010. We got support to ship lethal material and equipment across to Russia to resupply our troops. We got a lot. Now, that all changed once you know, Putin announced he was going to be president again now. There's—I don't admire very much about Mr. Putin, but the idea you can stand and say, "I will be your next president." That does have a certain, you know, attraction to it. [laughter] So, you know, I think we've got—we've really—we are not spending the—the time. We're not thinking, we're not digging deep into what are we going to do. So, to answer the question of the—of the woman who asked, we have to do more to get back talking about how we try to confine, contain, deter Russian aggression in Europe and beyond. And try to figure out what are the best tools for doing that and don't lose sight of the architect because we're going to have a lot of issues up there well. So, I—I—I was always of that opinion. Expressed it vocally within the administration. And nothing that has happened since has in anyway persuaded me other wise. QUESTION: And I'll just do a quick follow up on that which is more generally, you know. You—you've got to take on the Russians and Putin. You've got to deal with a very comprehensive strategy for a very complicated part of the world called the Middle East. How do you do the rebalancing to Asia on top of all of this? CLINTON: Well, I—I do think we're capable of doing more than one thing although sometimes it appears difficult. And—and I think we've got to be much more global in our thinking and globally present. The rebalancing to Asia, otherwise known as the pivot, was in response to the very real sense of abandonment that Asian leaders expressed to me. My phone calls to them before I ever went to the region in February of 2009, you know, they—they believed that because we were focused in Afghanistan and we were so focused in Iraq, and obviously had to be given all that we had invested there, that we were just not paying attention to the developments in Asia. I think we've come along in some ways in trying to rebalance but we have a long to go. And there's much at stake in how we deal with all the players in Asia. I'm hoping that the upcoming trip I have with President Xi Jinping produces some positive outcomes. I thought the climate agreement was quite consequential having been in Copenhagen in '09 with the President when we literally had to break into a meeting where the Chinese were consolidating India, South Africa and Brazil against any kind of movement toward the non advanced economies taking responsibility. So I think we've got some good stakes in the ground but we don't have a—a strategy yet that is going to be consistent. And the final thing I'll say about this, Martin, and I alluded to it in my remarks, I think one of our—one of our real problems right now is we don't have a consistent foreign policy that is bipartisan, let alone non-partisan. And I think that's a problem. I mean, I was appalled when those Republican senators wrote to the ayatollah. I thought it was incredibly, you know, short-sighted and you know, wrong-headed. And I don't think—I don't know what we rebuild a consistent foreign policy from administration to administration, regardless of Republican or Democrat. You know, it was a lot easier in a bipolar world, us versus the Soviet Union, I understand that, but I think we really have to work at it. And we can't work at it if we don't have a set of strategic pillars and organizing principles that we can present to our own people and present to the Congress and present to the world. So I think we have work to do. INDYK: Andrea? QUESTION: Madam Secretary, when you talk about the policies with Syria and Putin, was it, in retrospect, a mistake for the administration after you left office to pull back on Labor Day, a couple of years ago, make the deal with Russia on the chemical weapons? Yes, the weapons were disposed of, but that created a different partnership, if you will, on diplomacy. And secondly, with reference to our colleague from Germany, what should America do to step up to the crisis of migration? Even if it's not on our front door, it is a moral issue, is it not, for the world? Thank you. CLINTON: As to the first one, you know, it's always difficult in hindsight to say what could have happened if something different had been done. IF we remember back to that time, prime minister Cameron had lost the vote in the parliament. He wanted to show support for the president's policy of taking some limited military action in light of Syria's use of chemical weapons. So it became clear that there was going to be a difficult vote in the Congress, not clear at all that it would successful, which would have left the president with authority, certainly, with executive authority to act. But since it had become a public debate, it would have been a much more difficult decision for him to make. I do think that not being able to follow through on it cost us. I am certain of that. That still comes back in conversations that people have with me, both here at home and—and people from other countries, but I do think it was a net positive to get as much of the chemical weapons out as we could, and there was no way we could have done that without Russian cooperation. I think there was hope after that kind of cooperation produced positive results that then, we could go back to talking more broadly with the Russians about what needed to be done in Syria and what needed to be done with Assad. They did not reciprocate on that. So you know, I think it's like much in—in international relations, it's a—it's a mixed picture, some positive, you know, some—some negative. With respect to the refugees, I have said I think that you know, we're coming up on the U.N. General Assembly. I think there should be an emergency global gathering where the U.N. literally tries to get commitments. You know, we did that with Haiti. After the Haiti earthquake, we had a huge gathering at the U.N. where literally it was like a pledging conference, where we said, "What are you going to do?" What—you know, "What can you contribute?" And little countries to big countries all stepped up and it was a great show of support in the face of a terrible natural disaster. We need to do something similar, and I've—I've publicly called on the U.N. to convene such a gathering. I do it again today in front of all of you. The United States has to be at the table, has to be leading it. We were in a strong position to do that on Haiti. I think, even though it's not on our doorstep, we have a real interest in working not just with our European friends, I think this is a global responsibility. And if you're too far away or for whatever reason you don't think you can take refugees then you have to contribute money. You should be supporting not only those refugees fleeing, but the incredible work that Jordan and Lebanon and Turkey have been doing, and they have not gotten the financial support they need. In fact, the last I checked, the U.N. appeal had only reached 37 percent, so there is both financial work and contributions that need to be forthcoming and countries need to be more open and willing to take refugees. I obviously want the United States to do our part but I also want this to be a global response. So I hope that with all these leaders gathered, with Pope Francis addressing the United Nations General Assembly in just about two weeks, we can see something like that very visible with people literally making their commitments nation by nation, or in the case of the EU or other organizations as well. INDYK: I think we're going to have to close it out, but I see two hands going up. Do you mind taking two together? First is Ivan and then Joe. QUESTION: Madam Secretary, I also want to add my thanks for a very forceful, unequivocal, and clear speech bringing a position that sounds eminently defensible. One of the silver linings potentially of the Iran deal is an alignment of interest in the region between Israel and the moderate Arab countries, Egypt, Saudi Arabia, Jordan, et cetera—the gulf states. If you agree with that, how would you see capitalizing on those shared interests, those concerns about Iran going forward? How would you promote the shared interests as a way of bridging more peace to the region? INDYK: Joe, quick question? QUESTION: Joe (Santioni), the pleasure is mine. Thank you for your measured and fact based approach to this. Let me bring you to the politics of the issue. What explains that we don't have a single Republic senator in support of this? Is this is ideological divide between the parties? Or raw partisan politics? CLINTON: Well I'll restrain myself and answer the first questions first. I think there is an opportunity here to succeed, I really do. I don't think it's easy. But let's just go back a few years. Not so long ago, Israel and Turkey were working very closely together on a number of issues. Then came the flotilla and then came the response by the Israeli military, then came many years of you know, real hard feelings that got harder and harder and we lost what was a—not just a - a working relationship but a real bridge. Similarly, there have been a number of instances where in the past, Israel has worked in common concert with a number of the gulf countries. Israel is now back in a very productive relationship with Egypt, obviously with Jordan. So there are the pieces of national and regional interests here that I think very diligently and probably frustratingly could be pulled back together.  I don't—I don't know that it's something the United States can lead, but it's certainly something that we can try to catalyze and encourage. And I think there is potential there because as I said in my speech, I will do everything I can to convince Turkey and (Qatar) that supporting Hamas is not in their interest. It's not in the region's interest. It's certainly not in Egypt's interest. They both care deeply about, you know, what happens in Egypt for somewhat different reasons than others, but they care. And so I think we have to build the case and I think American diplomats could help build that case. And then look for ways—I mean, I spent, you know, literally years trying to get the Israelis to finally apologize to the Turks on the flotilla. And there was a memorable day during one of my vacations where I was literally, you know, talking to the Israelis. I was talking to Henry Kissinger. I was talking to everybody I could find to make the strategic argument which we all believed, that the sooner Israel did that, the sooner they could get back to some kind of discussion perhaps. Finally that happened when President Obama went to Israel. And I was very happy that, you know, now we have a different Turkey with a different kind of, set of challenges, but interests remain the same. Turkey's interest for stability are not so different than they were, even though some of the leadership attitudes seem to have altered. So I would like to see us do everything we can. I would make a high priority of that. I hope that this administration in the last, you know, year-and-a-half or so of it, term, will be similarly doing that because, let's start seeing what we can do. It kind of goes back to Robin's question. You know, you don't know what you can achieve until you try to put the pieces together. And I think the more we can try to put those pieces together, the more we'll know whether or not something can come up. With respect to the lack of support for the agreement, honestly, I think it's—it's—it's in some instances genuine. Just as I said in my remarks, there are people who I deeply respect on the Democratic side certainly and I would respect them on the Republican side as well, who just have concerns that they don't feel have been answered. But I think the driving force behind it is, you know, to close ranks against the president, against this kind of diplomacy, but without offering an alternative. And that's what I find, I mean I don't mind debating alternatives. I mean, when we did the New Start Treaty, it was really hard to get the votes for that. I remember, you know, going up and making the case, but we got some Republican votes. But we're living in a very partisan atmosphere right now. And I do think we have to do more. Just as we, and I'll end with this by saying, just as we have to in diplomacy, reach out to people constantly, if not to persuade them to join with us, to eliminate an argument that they have, that they won't join, because they have been consulted. They have been brought along, they have been briefed. We have to do that with the Congress as well. And it's not—it's not easy if they don't even have open minds. But we still have to do it so we can be in the position of saying, you know, "We told you this, we offered you this, we briefed you this, we gave you this information and you haven't come forth with any kind of, you know, rational, or rationale to oppose us.  You're just opposing us. So it's—it's—it's very political, after discounting those who I think are—are genuinely skeptical. INDYK: Madame Secretary Hillary, thank you very much for—for a very powerful series and—and clear-headed explication of your position on Iran, Middle East and even broader. This is precisely what we expect from you and precisely what we at Brookings want to try to promote in this presidential debate, so we are very grateful to you. Please join me in thanking Hillary. [applause]
BLITZER: When they we're not turning on one another, the Republican hopefuls took turns turn—targeting Hillary Clinton in last night's debate. In a CNN exclusive, the Democratic presidential candidate, Hillary Clinton, joins us now live. This is her first live interview from the campaign trail. Madam Secretary, thanks very much for joining us. CLINTON: Great to talk to you, Wolf. I'm in Laconia, New Hampshire. BLITZER: It's a lovely place. I'm sure you're going to be spending a lot of the time there, Iowa, among other states. If—you took—you certainly did take a lot of fire from the Republicans at the CNN debate last night. I assume you watched it, especially from the lone female candidate up on the stage, Carly Fiorina. She said if you want to stump a Democrat, she said, ask them about Hillary Clinton's accomplishments as secretary of State. If you were on that debate stage with her, what would you say was your number one accomplishment as secretary of State? CLINTON: You know, Wolf, I didn't get to see all of their debate, but I saw enough of it to know that this is just the usual back and forth political attacks, the kinds of things you say when you're on a debate stage and you really don't have much else to say. I didn't hear anything from any of them about how they're going to make college more affordable or get down student debt, or get equal pay for equal work for women, what they're going to do to make sure that we deal with the challenges of raising incomes for hardworking people. So I don't really pay a lot of attention to this kind of rhetoric that heats up the debate stage. They're all trying to vie for more attention from, obviously, the Republican Party. I'm going to let them decide how best to do it. But if anybody is interested, you know, there's a long list about what I have done and I'm very proud of it. You can read my book, "Hard Choices," read about how I negotiated a cease-fire between Israel and Hamas. You can read about how I put together the coalition that led to international sanctions against Iran. You can read about what I did when I was first lady to get the children's health insurance program, or as senator, working across the aisle on issues like getting better health care for our veterans. You know, this is just the silly season. I am looking forward to eventually debating on that stage whoever they finally nominate once they get around to doing that. BLITZER: All right, so listen to what Carly Fiorina also said, Madam Secretary, about some controversial videos opposing Planned Parenthood, an organization you support. Listen to this. [begin video clip] CARLY FIORINA, GOP PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I dare Hillary Clinton, Barack Obama, to watch these tapes, watch a fully formed fetus on the table, its heart beating, its legs kicking, while someone says we have to keep it alive to harvest its brain. This is about the character of our nation. [end video clip] BLITZER: All right, Planned Parenthood... CLINTON: You know, of course not... BLITZER:?—says that video doesn't depict—Madam Secretary, hold on. I just want to explain. CLINTON: That's right. BLITZER: Planned Parenthood says the video doesn't depict an aborted fetus. They says—they said that was from a miscarriage, it had nothing to do with Planned Parenthood. This is an organization, though, you support. First of all, have you seen those very, very controversial videos? CLINTON: Well, Wolf, let's—let's break down what's happening here, because I think it's important. I know that there's a move on by some of the Republicans in the Congress to actually shut down the United States government over their demand that we no longer give federal funding to Planned Parenthood to perform the really necessary health services that they do for millions of women. So let's put aside for a moment here that there is no debate and there should be absolutely no argument that Planned Parenthood does cancer screenings, it helps provide family planning and contraceptive advice, it works to provide, you know, some of the most difficult kinds of counseling when it comes to giving an HIV test, for example. What this is about is the fact that some of the Planned Parenthood facilities perform abortions, which is legal under the laws of the United States. I understand that the Republican Party and particularly the candidates we heard from last night, wish that were not the case, wish that abortion were illegal and they could turn the clock back. So I think we ought to be very clear that Planned Parenthood has served to provide health care, necessary health care for millions of women. And I think it deserves not only our support, but the continuing funding from the federal government so that these women and girls who are seeking the kinds of services that are provided will be able to achieve that. BLITZER: All right, have you—are you confident that Planned Parenthood, Madam Secretary, or any of its affiliated groups, if you will, haven't violated any federal laws? CLINTON: Well, Wolf, let me tell you what I know, and that is there is a—a willingness on the part of Planned Parenthood to answer questions. They have been doing so. Some people may not want to hear the answers, but they have certainly put those answers out there into the public arena. And if the issue—the core issue that some on the stage last night or some in the Congress are trying to promote or trying to raise questions about has to do with the kind of research that is done legally in the United States, then that is an issue that goes far beyond any Planned Parenthood example. So I—I think it's important to sort out—there's a lot of emotion. There's a lot of accusations that are being hurled about. I think it's important to sort out and try to actually figure out what is going on. If it's the services that they are trying to shut down, like providing family planning or breast cancer screenings, that is just wrong and women deserve to be given support to get those services provided. If they want to shut down the legal provision of abortion services, then they've got a bigger problem, because, obviously, they—Planned Parenthood does not use federal dollars to do that. And if they are more focused on the research that is going on, then that's a set of issues that certainly is not only about Planned Parenthood. So I—I would hope... BLITZER: But a... CLINTON:?—that the Republicans, and particularly the Republicans in the House, led by Speaker Boehner, would not put our country and our economy in peril pursuing some kind of emotionally politically charged partisan attack on Planned Parenthood to shut our government down. BLITZER: All right... CLINTON: I think that would be a very, very unfortunate decision. BLITZER: All right, let's talk about another source of criticism you received last night, this one from the New Jersey governor, Chris Christie. He said at the debate, you can't tell the American people the truth. Those are his words about your email, whole controversy. He says you should be prosecuted for having a server in your basement. [laughter] He says with national security secrets running through it. He says Russians, Chinese, even 18-year-olds could have hacked into your server. You—you think that was possible, that they hacked into your server? CLINTON: There's no evidence of that. And, again, this is—you know, this is overheated rhetoric, baseless charges trying to somehow, you know, gain a footing in the debate and in the primary. And it really doesn't deserve any comment. BLITZER: It took you a long time to say you're sorry about what happened, the mistakes you made in organizing that server to begin with. Why did it take so long? CLINTON: Well, you know, I was trying to explain, uh, what had happened and obviously it was clear that I should have used two different email accounts and I said that that was a mistake, I'm sorry, I've taken responsibility. But I've also, for more than a year now, been asking to testify before the Congressional committee that is investigating the situation in Benghazi, they would not let me appear. Finally—and I'm very happy about this—I will be appearing, toward the end of October, and I will look forward to answer all their questions. I'm trying to be as transparent as possible. That's why people are reading the contents of the emails that are being released. It's why I've turned over my server. It's why I will testify. BLITZER: You've dismissed Donald Trump's campaign as entertainment, suggested, in part, he's not really serious. But the top Republican candidate right now, Donald Trump, and, for that matter, Ben Carson, Carly Fiorina, they're all political outsiders and your main Democratic opponent, Senator Bernie Sanders, he's pulling ahead in some of these polls in New Hampshire and Iowa. He's running as an outsider, as well. So how do you deal with that? Why is Bernie Sanders, for example, ahead of you in these polls in New Hampshire and Iowa right now? CLINTON: Well, I—I've said for a long time, polls are going to go up, they're going to go down. I'm very confident and very comfortable about our strategy. I feel that our campaign in Iowa and New Hampshire, all the early states, and now we're moving on to the states that come after, are really coming together well. I'm excited by the level and intensity of the support that I have. So I always thought this would be a competitive election. I'm looking forward to it. This is an important job. This is the most important job not only in our country, but in the world. And people have to fight hard. They have to make their case and they have to earn the votes of the American voters. BLITZER: You sat next to Joe Biden when you were the secretary of State for four years. He's been the vice president of the United States now for almost seven years, a heartbeat away from the presidency. If he does decide to run, will you be able to tell the American people that you're more qualified to be president than he is? CLINTON: Well, Wolf, I'm not going to comment on a hypothetical and I'm certainly not going to comment on my good friend and former colleague. He has to make up his own mind about what's best for him and his family, as he wrestles with his choice. But I will tell the American people I believe that my set of experiences, my plans for the future, my vision for what America should be, what I've already told voters I would do on everything from making college affordable to paying down student debt to tackling climate change by making us the clean energy superpower, dealing with substance abuse and addiction, like I did here in New Hampshire today. I have a very comprehensive agenda that I think address the very issues that Americans are talking to me about. And I know that having been around the presidency, both as the first lady in the '90s and then as a member of President Obama's cabinet, working with other presidents, as a senator and even in private life, I feel very confident that I'm the right person at the right time to lead our country to deal with the growing issues around incomes that are not raising enough money for people to feel they've got a better future, about the kind of jobs we need more of, about how more workers get to share in the productivity by sharing the profits of what they helped produce. I'm the one out there talking very specifically about what I would do because I want to run a campaign that lays out my agenda, because when I get elected, I'm going to start working on it immediately. BLITZER: I know—I know your time is limited. A quick question, are you ready to tell Democrats, indeed, the American public today, that you're ready to accept more Democratic presidential debates than already scheduled? You're under pressure to do so. CLINTON: Well, Wolf, I have said from the very beginning, I look forward to debating. I look forward to the debate, you know, next month, you know, now just a month away. And I will certainly show up anywhere the Democratic National Committee tells us to show up, because I want us to have a good exchange of ideas and to make sure that Democratic voters first, and then general voters to follow, see exactly what we each stand for and what our positions are. So, you know, I—I am ready and willing, no matter what they decide to show up and be there. BLITZER: Are you ready to ask the DNC to authorize more Democratic presidential debates? CLINTON: That's up to them. They can, you know, they made their decision. But I have made it clear that if they want to do more, I'm happy to do them. BLITZER: Clearly, you're influential, though, with the DNC. And if you want more debates, I'm sure that Debbie Wasserman Schultz, the chair of the DNC, would—would go ahead. Let me ask you one final question before I let you go. You've praised your husband as a great president. So let me ask you this. Would you be a better president than Bill Clinton was as president of the United States? [laughter] CLINTON: Oh, Wolf, you know, that—that's one of those questions that I cannot and will not answer. I will say this. I think if you look at the last 35 years, actually, if you go back further, I think it's pretty indisputable that having a Democrat in the White House is good for our economy, better for our economy than the alternative. I think my husband understood that and produced. I think President Obama inherited a—a really big and dangerous mess and has, you know, been able to get us out of that ditch. So I'm not running for my husband's third term. I'm certainly not running for President Obama's third term. I'm running for my first term. But I do believe that both of them understood what it would take to try to clean up the messes they inherited from their Republican predecessors and begin to get the economy and the country working again for everybody. And that's exactly the kind of president I will be, as well. BLITZER: Madam Secretary, thank you so much for joining us. Good luck out there on the campaign trail. We'll look forward to covering you. We'll look forward to covering, obviously, all of those Democratic presidential debates, as well. Thanks very much for joining us. CLINTON: Thank you so much, Wolf. Good to talk to you. BLITZER: Thank you.
DICKERSON: We're joined by Democratic presidential candidate and former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton. Welcome, Secretary Clinton. We're glad to have you. Let's start in the news, Syrian refugees. CLINTON: Right. DICKERSON: President Obama has said he will increase the number allowed into 10,000. Is that enough? CLINTON: Now, look, we're facing the worst refugee crisis since the end of World War II. And I think United States has to do more. And I would like to see us move from what is a good start with 10,000 to 65,000, and begin immediately to put into place the mechanisms for vetting the people that we would take in, looking to really emphasize some of those who are most vulnerable, a lot of the persecuted religious minorities, including Christians, and some who have been brutalized, like the Yazidi women. But I also want the United States to lead the world. And I have recommended that, at the upcoming U.N. General Assembly, there be an international meeting called by the secretary-general and literally get people to commit, putting money in, helping the front-line states, like Jordan and Turkey and Lebanon, who have absorbed a lot of refugees, working with the E.U. and the European countries, but getting everybody to make a contribution. DICKERSON: Let me ask you about the underlying condition creating this refugee crisis. You advocated for arming the Syrian rebels. CLINTON: Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. DICKERSON: That was then ultimately put in place. We now hear that that is not going well at all. Out of 12,000 Syrians that have been trained, there are only handful that can actually fight. Was this a bad idea, or was this a bad idea—or was this a good idea poorly executed? CLINTON: Well, John, I did recommend that, at the beginning of this conflict, we do more to help train those who were in the forefront of leading the opposition against Assad, looking to try to bring the moderates together. A lot of these rebels, originally, they were—they were businesspeople, they were professional people, they were students. They had no training in going up against the Syrian army, which Assad clearly was going to use to the ultimate effect. That was not the decision taken at that time. A lot of what I worried about has happened. There are now big ungoverned territories within Syria that are dominated by terrorist groups, ISIS being the best known, but not the only one. You have Iran and Russia increasingly moving in to support Assad and his constant bombardment against his own people. And then you have these millions of refugees. So, where we are today is not where we were. And where we are today is that we have a failed program. You heard the testimony, five people trained for half—$500, half-a-billion dollars. But I think we still have to keep working with the Turks, with the Jordanians, with others of our partners. We also have to do more to support the Kurds, something that I have also advocated. DICKERSON: Let me ask you about Russia. So, it looks like U.S. policy now is, we're not going to—train and equip has failed, so now we're going to turn to the Russians for help. These are the same Russians who are busy in Ukraine doing things we don't like them to do. The Israelis think that the Russians are involved with Hezbollah. Why are we turning to the Russians? CLINTON: Well, I hope we're not turning to the Russians. Let me just quickly say that I wouldn't give up on train and equip, but I sure would push the Pentagon to take hard look why what has been done has been such a failure and what more we could do to support, like, Kurdish fighters who are on the front lines. And one of the difficulties we had in the train and equip is that we basically were trying to train people to only take on ISIS and terrorist networks. We were not training and equipping them to take on Assad or his military or his proxies, which include Hezbollah, by the way. I hope we are not turning to the Russians in that way. I hope what we're doing—and this is what I support—and I heard Secretary Kerry say this is what we will be doing. And I think Secretary Carter has begun these conversations. First of all, we have to figure out what they are doing. Russia has a long interest in Syria. They have had a base in—a naval base in Syria for a long time. They have a connection because a lot of Syrians were educated in the Cold War in Moscow and a lot of Russians actually moved to Syria. So, they have not only deep links to Syria and Syrians, but they intend to support Assad for their own reasons. And we need to really unpeel what it is they're trying to accomplish and work with others to try to contain them. And I want to just end by saying, if they are providing any equipment to Hezbollah, if they are supporting Hezbollah, which is the main fighting force on behalf of the Iranians to support Assad, but also a deadly threat to Israel, then we have got to take action, whether there are tougher sanctions or other kinds of actions to try to prevent that from happening. DICKERSON: I want to ask you about something that came up in the Republican debate. Jeb Bush said, one thing was true about his brother. He kept America safe. Do you agree with that? CLINTON: I think it's a complicated question, because, of course, 9/11 happened. I was a senator from New York. And I was basically consumed by my responsibility to help the people directly affected in my state and in the city. So, it did happen. And then I do give President Bush credit for trying to bring the country together around the threats that we did face. I have said the war in Iraq was a mistake. I supported what happened in Afghanistan. So, if you sort it all out, you know, it's a mixed—it's a mixed picture. DICKERSON: Let me take you back to the 2008 campaign, where Iraq was a conversation and U.S. security was a conversation. You ran an ad, the 3:00 a.m. ad... CLINTON: Yes. DICKERSON: ... which became quite famous. Let's play that for our—our viewers. CLINTON: My gosh. I haven't seen that in a long time. [laughter] DICKERSON: Well, it's a throwback Sunday here. [begin video clip] NARRATOR: It's 3:00 a.m., and your children are safe and asleep. Who do you want answering the phone? CLINTON: I'm Hillary Clinton. And I approve this message. [end video clip] [laughter] DICKERSON: So, the question for you is, now you have been secretary of state. CLINTON: Right. DICKERSON: Benghazi. CLINTON: Right. DICKERSON: Was that your 3:00 a.m. phone call? And how well did you handle that crisis, by the standard you raised in that ad? CLINTON: Well, of course it was a crisis. And we lost four brave Americans, including the person that I asked the president to send as ambassador, Chris Stevens. But we live in a dangerous world. And even our diplomats are at threat. And that goes all the way back to, for goodness' sake, taking over our embassy in Tehran or the bombings of our embassy in Beirut, when President Reagan was in charge. This is a dangerous world. And I think what we had to do during that period of time, in trying to protect our people after the attack on the consulate, getting them evacuated, not only working on what was going on in Libya, because, remember, we had embassies that were under attack or threatened to attack by terrorist groups across North Africa, indeed, across a much larger swathe of the world. So, I think it was terribly tragic, what happened. I immediately asked for an independent review, just like former secretaries of state did. And I made that public. And the only other person who did that was Secretary Albright after our embassies were bombed in Africa. So, my view on this is, we have to learn things. And we are always learning. We learned after Beirut. We learned after Tanzania and Kenya. We have learned after Benghazi, but we're not going to be able to represent the United States working out of hermetically sealed tanks. We are going to have to be out in the world. DICKERSON: One more question on Benghazi. The charge is, in this campaign, that after it happened, there was a report inside the State Department and inside the government that this was a terrorist attack. But in what we heard from the government at the time and from you was an emphasis on this video, that that had created the attack. And so the charge is that there was a political pressure to make the case more about the video than to talk about terrorism. CLINTON: Well, I just don't think that's fair. And I'm going to testify about this at the end of October before the committee looking into this. I think it's the eighth investigation that the Congress has conducted. There were two things going on simultaneously. I and others said that we were attacked. There was no doubt about that. That video, which was still spinning through the world, was being mentioned on social media. We had people climbing the walls at our embassy in Cairo even before the attack in Benghazi. And we had a lot of other attacks. I had to call the president of one of our neighboring countries, Tunis, to try to get—in Tunis—to get them to help protect our embassy. So, I was worried about everything that was going on and how people were responding to that from North Africa to Pakistan, all the way to Indonesia. DICKERSON: So, no political pressure to keep the story kind of a little more favorable to the administration? CLINTON: Well, all I can tell you, I never felt any political pressure or did I feel any political reason to do anything other than what we tried to do, which was to immediately deal with the problems that were coming at us. DICKERSON: So, questions about Benghazi have led to discovery of your personal server. If we use this episode as a way to think about the way would you run your presidency, let's say there's a meeting at Clinton headquarters, and you're with your staff. And you're saying, looking at the e-mail situation from the day you decided, yes, to have the server, all the way to where we all now... CLINTON: Right. DICKERSON: ... what went well, what didn't go so well? CLINTON: Well, look, I have said that I didn't make the best choice. I should have used two separate e-mail accounts, one personal, one work-related. What I did was allowed. It was fully above board. People in the government certainly knew that I was using a personal e-mail. But I have tried to be transparent. And that includes releasing 55,000 pages, which is unprecedented—nobody else that I'm aware of has ever done that—plus turning over the server, plus testifying at the end of October. So, I think that people have questions. I want to try to answer them. DICKERSON: Was it a failure in judgment on your part? CLINTON: Well, look, it was permitted. It was allowed. I did it. And I think that people can make their own judgments about that. But I have tried to be as transparent as I can. DICKERSON: You talked a lot about transparency, that—when we think about trust—and there's been a lot of talk about that in your campaign and voters having questions. They have questions maybe related to this. Trust and transparency are related. You have been transparent in the release of these e-mails, but what about before? Because there was a period where you held on to the whole kit and caboodle before any investigators were asking for it, long after you were out of the State Department. CLINTON: Well, it wasn't that long. What I did was to send e-mails to people at their government accounts, which I had every reason to believe would be captured on the government systems. And when we were asked to help the State Department make sure they had everything from other secretaries of state, not just me, I'm the one who said, OK, great, I will go through them again. And we provided all of them. And more than 90 percent were already in the system. And, in fact, I gave so many that were not work-related, just to be as comprehensive as possible, they are already sending back about 1,200 of them. So, look, I did what was, as I said, allowed. I said it wasn't the best choice. And it turned out to be a mistake, in retrospect. But, at the time, and given the fact that most of them were in the government systems, people are going to get a chance to see all kinds of behind-the-scenes conversations, most of which, I'm embarrassed to say, are kind of boring. [laughter] DICKERSON: Just to button this up here, you have said you were sorry. CLINTON: Yes. DICKERSON: What exactly are you sorry for and to whom? CLINTON: Well, you know, I'm sorry that I made a choice that has raised all of these questions, because I don't like reading that people have questions about what I did and how I did it. I'm proud of the work we did at the State Department. And I'm really proud of all the career professionals I worked with. I'm proud of the people who came in with me. And we got sanctions on Iran, put together that international coalition. We got a new arms treaty with Russia. We did a lot of really important work. And I want that to be the focus of what people know about my tenure at the State Department. DICKERSON: Some people who know you and have worked with you say what this e-mail situation suggests is that there's nobody around you who can say, Secretary Clinton, this is a bad idea, don't do this. Do you have such a person?  [crosstalk] [laughter] CLINTON: I have too many, actually. Look, this—this was... DICKERSON: No, before the fact, not after. After, everybody is giving you advice. CLINTON: I know. No, but, John this was done by prior government officials, including... DICKERSON: But not at this level, not solely a server just for you. CLINTON: You know, look, let's—it was done by others. And let me just say that, yes, when I did it, it was allowed, it was above board. And now I'm being as transparent as possible, more than anybody else ever has been. DICKERSON: All right. Secretary Clinton, we are going to pause right there. CLINTON: OK. DICKERSON: We will be back in one more minute with more from Secretary Clinton. Stay with us. [commercial break] DICKERSON: We're back now with Secretary Clinton. Secretary Clinton, Donald Trump had a supporter at one of his rallies suggest the president was Muslim and not an American. Donald Trump stayed mute and continues to say nothing about that. Are politicians on the hook for every crazy thing one of their supporters stands up and says? CLINTON: Well, of course not, because we all have supporters who may say things that we don't agree with. But when you are at an event and someone stands up and says something like that in front of you, then I do think you have a responsibility to respond. John McCain did back in the '08 campaign when somebody in one of his events said something similarly untrue and insulting about the president. And McCain stopped that person. That's what Donald Trump should have done. And I said the other day he is fueling a level of paranoia and prejudice against all kinds of people. And when you light those fires, you better recognize that they can get out of control. And he should start dampening them down and putting them out. He wants to talk about what he would do as president. That's obviously fair game. But to play into some of the worst impulses that people have these days that are really being lit up by the Internet and other conspiracy-minded theories is just irresponsible. It's appalling.  [crosstalk] DICKERSON: Which Republican would you like to run against the most? CLINTON: Oh, John, I have no—I have no vote in that. I'm going to run against whoever they put up against me. DICKERSON: Are you doing anything to prepare for Joe Biden potentially entering the race? Is your campaign doing anything? CLINTON: No, we're not, because this is such a personal decision. And the vice president has to sort this out. He's been so open in talking about how difficult this time is for him and his family. And he's obviously considering what he wants to do, including whether he wants to run. And I just have the greatest respect and affection for him. And I think everybody just ought to give him the space to decide what is best for him and his family. DICKERSON: Bernie Sanders has made quite a point of not attacking you. He said he's not going to run any negative ads. Would you pledge to do the same thing with respect to him, not attack him, and also tell your supporters, hey, lay off? CLINTON: Look, I want this to be about ideas and about policies. I know Bernie. I respect his enthusiastic and intense advocacy of his ideas. That's what I want this campaign to be about. And I hope people who support me respect that, because this is a serious election. I obviously am running because I think it's better for the country if a Democrat who has the kind of approaches and values that my husband had and Barack Obama has follows this presidency. DICKERSON: So, can I mark that down as a yes? CLINTON: Yes. DICKERSON: You will pledge not to? CLINTON: Well, I have no—no interest in doing that. DICKERSON: And you're going to talk about Obamacare this week, support it. CLINTON: Yes, I am. DICKERSON: What is the big new proposal you're going to offer? CLINTON: Well, first, let me say that it's time that we say that the debate over the Affordable Care Act is over. The Supreme Court has twice upheld it, yet the Congress has voted more than 50 times to repeal it. Let's get beyond that. Enough is enough. And we need to strengthen it, not scrap it. It is the core of how we're going to provide health care to Americans going forward, the 16 million. But there are other benefits to it that people who are not on the exchanges are being able to take advantage of. You know, 158 million American women are no longer charged more for health care because of our gender. Young people can stay on their parents' policies until they're 26. If you have a preexisting condition, insurance companies can't shut you out. We have a lot of positives. But there are issues that need to be addressed. I'm going to address them this week, starting with how we're going to try to control the cost of skyrocketing prescription drugs. It's something that I hear about wherever I go. It's part of the plan I will be rolling out in the next few days. DICKERSON: Let me ask you about those Planned Parenthood videos. Have you watched them? CLINTON: I have seen excerpts from them. And I have certainly read about them. And what I am troubled by are the misleading, inaccurate allegations about them that we heard from Republicans at their debate. This is really an attack on Planned Parenthood, which provides a lot of health services, from cancer screenings , to contraceptive services, to so many other of the needs women have. And to shut down the government, which some Republicans are advocating, over funding for Planned Parenthood, which takes care of millions of women's health needs, is just the height of irresponsibility. DICKERSON: That's the policy debate this has turned into. But what was your reaction just when you watched them? CLINTON: Well, look, as Planned Parenthood has said, these were misleadingly edited. They were intentionally taken out of context. The fact is that, if we want to have a debate in this country about whether we should continue using—or doing fetal research, then it's not only Planned Parenthood that should be involved in that debate. All of the experts, all of the scientists, all of the research institutions, everybody who is looking for cures to Parkinson's, for example, should be asked, should we continue this? But so far as I am aware, what they did, despite the way it was portrayed, is within the laws that were set up for this. DICKERSON: This week, the Senate is going to vote to impose a federal ban on late-term abortions. Do you support a federal limit on abortion at any stage of pregnancy? CLINTON: This is one of those really painful questions that people raise. And, obviously, it's really emotional. I think that the kind of late-term abortions that take place are because of medical necessity. And, therefore, I would hate to see the government interfering with that decision. I think that, again, this gets back to whether you respect a woman's right to choose or not. And I think that is what this whole argument once again is about. DICKERSON: In the politics this year, it looks like everybody wants an outsider. [laughter] Now, that puts you in a fix....[crosstalk]...Does it put you in a fix? Tell us why it doesn't put you in a fix. CLINTON: I cannot imagine anyone being more of an outsider than the first woman president. I mean, really, let's think about that. DICKERSON: Now, I agree, but your name—we have not... CLINTON: I mean, if you line up—if you—all these mothers and fathers bring me the place mats with all the presidents, and they bring their daughters, and they say, my daughter has a question for you. And the daughter says, how come there are no girls on this place mat? DICKERSON: I agree that that is a difference. CLINTON: I think that's a pretty big unconventional choice. DICKERSON: Yes. But you know what I'm asking. CLINTON: Well, I know you're asking, do we want people who have never been elected to anything, who have no political experience, who have never made any hard choices in the public arena? Well, voters are going to have to decide that. DICKERSON: But they worry that people who are inside are too inside, that that's why the economic situation is tilted against the middle class. It's why they always feel like everybody can wiggle around the rules. And that's something you have to deal with, right? CLINTON: Of course it is. And that's why I have an economic policy that is centered on raising incomes, because I think what we inherited from the Bush administration, what President Obama had to deal with had the potential of becoming a great depression, not just a great recession. We have now recovered 13 million jobs, after losing 800,000 a month when he came into office. So, why would we go back to the same policies? Call them insider. Call them tilted toward the rich. Call them giving corporations a free pass to do whatever they want. I'm against that. I have always been against that. I want to go back to economic policies where we create millions of new jobs and where people's incomes rise not just at the top, but in the middle and at the bottom, like they did under my husband. So, you know, I'm not running for Bill's third term. I'm not running for President Obama's third term. But it would be really foolish of me not to say, you know, that worked better than what the Republicans offer. DICKERSON: What role should Wall Street play in the economy? CLINTON: Look, we need financial markets. But they need to be put on notice that any of their behaviors that impact Main Street, that disrupt the kind of orderly processing of financial transactions because high-frequency trading is now going to be making decisions in nanoseconds, or fooling around, as they did in the '80s, in packaging mortgage securities in a way that really bombed us into the great resection, I don't think any financial institution, not just banks, because I think it's important to recognize there are a lot of financial institutions. AIG was a problem. Lehman Brothers went bankrupt. They were not banks in the traditional sense. We need to rein in the risks posed by these financial institutions. DICKERSON: Let me—a final question. Your friend the late Diane Blair wrote in her diary—quote—"On her deathbed, Clinton wants to be able to say she was true to herself and is not going to do phony makeovers to please others." So, knowing you don't want to engage in phony makeovers, give us three words that is the real Hillary Clinton. [laughter] Just three. CLINTON: Just three? I can't possibly do that. I mean, look, I am a real person, with all the pluses and minuses that go along with being that. And I have been in the public eye for so long that I think—you know, it's like the feature that you see in some magazines sometimes. Real people actually go shopping, you know? DICKERSON: All right. Well, I'm going to have to really interrupt you. Thank you, Secretary Clinton. CLINTON: Thanks, John. DICKERSON: Democratic presidential—Hillary Clinton, we hope to talk to you again soon. Thanks very much. And we will be back in a moment. CLINTON: Thank you.
TODD: Madam Secretary, thank you for joining us. CLINTON: Thank you very much. TODD: And a reminder, I know there's all conspiracy theories out there, there are no limitations to this interview. CLINTON: As far as I know. That's true—absolutely. TODD: Exactly. So let's get that out of the way. Let me start with a piece of sound, it's MEET THE PRESS, this is what you said on MEET THE PRESS seven years ago about transparency. [begin video clip] CLINTON: I want to have a much more transparent government and I think we now have the tools to make that happen. I want to have as much information about the way our government operates on the Internet. So the people who pay for it, the taxpayers of America, can see that. [end video clip] TODD: A year later, Clintonemail.com, this server—started private server. Had every government agency did what you did at the State Department there would be a lot of information that wasn't in the public. Do you see that now as a problem as far as the public is concerned? CLINTON: Well, Chuck, let me make a couple points. First of all, as I have said very often, all of the e-mails that I sent were intended to be in the government systems if they were work related. That's why I sent them to people at their work a dresses. And, you know, the vast majority of them ended up there. So I have said also that if I had to do it all over again I would have used a separate e-mail account. I did it for convenience and it turned out not to be that at all. But the bottom line is my e-mails were predominantly in the State Department system or on other government servers and then I said I'm going to give them all after a very careful review and I did so. TODD: All right. I want to unpack a couple of things there but let me start with just the news of this week. You had said in a written statement under oath that you had turned over everything that you believed you had for the federal records with those 55,000 e-mails but we have now discovered an e-mail chain between then General Petraeus and yourself that took place a couple of months before these records started. Can you explain the discrepancy there? It was the same e-mail address that you used while at state that you were using with General Petraeus just two months before you said everything was out there. CLINTON: Well, everything that we had access to was certainly out there and the reason we know about the e-mail chain with General Petraeus is because it was on a government server. And so from my perspective we have a very thorough review process that we conducted and my attorneys supervised it, they went through everything and what we had available at the time was turned over. TODD: But I guess what I'm trying to figure out is if you said in March that the e-mail system began in March of '09 yet but we have the same e-mail address popping up in January, explain that discrepancy. CLINTON: There was a transition period. I wasn't that focused on my e-mail account to be clear here. TODD: Let me stop you there. You say you weren't focused on it except this seemed to be—to put an e-mail server at your house is not a—it's a complicated thing. CLINTON: Yes, but it was already there. It had been there for years. It is the system that my husband's personal office used when he got out of the White House so it was sitting there in the basement. It was not any trouble at all. I know there are a lot of people who are questioning that. But the fact is that it was there. I added my account to it. It apparently took a little time to do that and so there was about a month where I didn't have everything already on the server. We went back and tried to recover whatever we could recover. And I think it's also fair to say that there are some things about this that I just can't control. I can't control the technical aspects of it. I'm not by any means a technical expert. I relied on people who were and we have done everything we could in response to the State Department asking us to do this review because they asked all the former secretaries. And the reason they asked, Chuck, is because they found gaps in their own recordkeeping. You know, my assumption—because this system was there before I became secretary—it was there when I left—my assumption was anything that I sent to a dot-gov account would be captured. TODD: But, you know, that's very difficult to capture all of your e-mails by going to perhaps thousands of people and their dot-gov accounts. It would have been easier if it was sent to your dot-gov account. CLINTON: Well, but when you communicate with people in other parts of the government you're not sending it to the State Department dot-gov and that would have been true either way. I think I have done all that I can to take responsibility to be as transparent as possibly in turning over 55,000 pages, in turning over my server and to testify on October 22, which I've been asking to do before the Congress. TODD: You had said just now in one of your explanations that you provided these records because State asked of all secretaries of state. As you know there was a report earlier this week in the "Washington Post" that said that isn't quite how it happened. In the summer of 2014 they discovered the discrepancy with your records and they wanted to make a request then it became a formal request of the last four secretaries of state. Can you explain that discrepancy? CLINTON: Well, we have explained that. The campaign has explained it. TODD: What is it? CLINTON: Look, when the committee—the eighth or ninth committee—investigating Benghazi asked for information from the State Department, they were doing a survey and they found discrepancies in their recordkeeping not in my records per se but in their overall recordkeeping. There were gaps and that's why they sent the letter and that's why we did the overall comprehensive search for everything. And it got us to the same place—we looked through everything, we gave them everything work-related. In fact, we gave them so much they've already told us they're sending back 1,200 because they were clearly personal and not work related. TODD: Can you respond to an alternative explanation that has sort of—CLINTON: Another conspiracy theory? TODD: That perhaps the reason you wanted to have a private server and not a government server is that Republicans have been coming after you for years, you might have—may have been running for president in the future and you wanted to make it a little more difficult for congressional investigators to subpoena your government e-mails and a little more difficult for Freedom of Information Act requests. Is that a fair theory or no? CLINTON: It's totally ridiculous. That never crossed my mind. And in fact, since more than 90 percent of my work-related e-mails were on the system they are subject to FOIA or any other request. That's how the Benghazi Committee got the e-mails even before we went through our exhaustive process. Now I have—as you're rightly pointing out—been involved from the receiving side in a lot of these accusations. In fact, as you might remember during the 90s, there were a bunch of them and, you know, all of them turned out to be not true. That was the outcome. When I ran for the senate the voters of New York, they overlooked all of that, and they looked at my record, and they looked at what I would do for them and I was elected senator after going through years of this kind of back and forth. And it is regrettable but it's part of the system. TODD: You know, one of the things about this over the last six months that I've heard from supporters is that there's an allegation about your e-mail server. The campaign provides an explanation, you provide an explanation. There's a new allegation, you have to provide a new explanation. There's an addendum that had explanation—it has the feel of a drip-drip-drip. Can you reassure Democrats that there's nothing else here? CLINTON: Well, it is like a drip-drip-drip and that's why I said there's only so much that I can control. But what I have tried to do in explaining this is to provide more transparency and more information than anybody that I'm aware of has ever served in the government and I'm happy to do that because I want these questions to be answered. I can't predict to you what the Republicans will come up with, what kind of charges or claims they might make. I have no control over that. I can only do the best I can to try to respond. The Justice Department has the e-mails, they have the server. They're conducting a security inquiry. They will take whatever necessary steps are required to get this matter resolved. TODD: Can you say with 100 percent certain that the deleted e-mails that the FBI is not going to find anything in there that's going to cause you to have to explain again? CLINTON: All I can tell you is that when my attorneys conducted this exhaustive process I did not participate. TODD: Why? CLINTON: I didn't look at them. TODD: I would want to know what e-mails. Why wouldn't you want to know? CLINTON: I wanted them to be as clear in their process as possible. I didn't want to be looking over their shoulder. If they thought it was work-related it would go to the State Department. If not then it would not. As I just said, over 1,200 of the e-mails that we were overly inclusive in trying to be comprehensive the State Department has said we don't want these. These are personal. These aren't work related. They're sending them back. So when that process finished, you know, my attorney said what do you want us to do with all these personal e-mails? I said I don't need to keep them. I don't need them or want them. So they then talked to the IT server, the technical people who were responsible for maintaining them and said we don't need them anymore. That's the limit of my knowledge and I know I was a little sarcastic in one exchange with the press for which I—I'm sorry guys. But you know, I'm not a technical expert. I just said I don't need them. Whatever happened to them happened to them and I'm very sure that my attorneys did the most meticulous job that could have been done. TODD: I'm just curious. Would anything having to do with the Clinton Foundation, would that have been personal or work? CLINTON: Well, it would depend. I did not communicate with the foundation. Other people in the State Department did in accordance with the rules that have been adopted. TODD: Any of these deleted e-mails are not going to be foundation related at all? CLINTON: Well, there might be, you know, there's going to be a meeting or there's this but not anything that relates to the work of the State Department. That was handled by, you know, the professionals and others in the State Department. TODD: All right. Let me sort of move on from that a little bit. I say sort of move on because obviously you've taken a hit in the polls. CLINTON: I have. TODD: There's the New Hampshire poll. Do you believe you have explained this and that there aren't any contradictions here? So is the issue not truthfulness but the issue of how you've handled it? CLINTON: Well, you know, let me say this Chuck. I have tried to the best of my ability to be able to respond and if people are uncertain, if they have concerns about these questions around the e-mails it's their choice to say that's going to influence, you know, how I think about the election. I understand that, I get it. But I also hope people will look at my life long advocacy for kids and families and women and look at what I'm proposing, the vision I have for the country to move forward on everything from raising incomes to equal pay for equal work to getting the cost of college down to dealing with high prescription drug costs—that's what I hope people focus on and people get to make their minds up. That's the beauty of our process. People can decide on whatever basis they choose. TODD: Your distrust deficit—your husband did an interview on CNN and he basically put it all on the Republicans and a little bit of us on the press that this whole thing that has driven down your poll numbers. Do you bear any responsibility? CLINTON: Well, first of all, I love my husband and he does get upset when I am attacked. I totally get that. But we also get the fact that, look, this is a contest and it's fair game for people to raise whatever they choose to raise. As he said I think in that same interview, they're not giving this job away, you have to get out there, you have to earn it. And that's what I'm trying to do. And of course I take responsibility. It was my choice. It was a mistake back when I did it and I'm trying to do the best I can to answer all of the questions that people have. And as I said during the 90s I was subjected to the same kind of barrage and it was—it seemed to be at the time endless. And then when I ran for the Senate people said, hey, we are more concerned about what you're going to do for us. And I trust the voters to make that decision this time around, too. TODD: All right. I want to play a little comp we've put together of some of the positions where your positions have changed a little bit. Take a look. [begin video clip] CLINTON: So it is with conviction that I support this resolution as being in the best interest of our nation. I've made it very clear that I made a mistake, plain and simple. I believe that marriage is not just a bond but a sacred bond between a man and a woman. This morning love triumphed in the highest court in our land. We've not yet signed off on it but we are inclined to do so. We're either going to be dependent on dirty oil from the gulf or dependent on dirty oil from Canada. I oppose it. I oppose it because I don't think it's in the best interests of what we need to do to combat climate change. [end video clip] TODD: How do you respond to some critics who say your positions have changed out of political expediency? That you're sort of whatever the majority is at that time, that's the position you have. CLINTON: Well, I just don't think that reflects either my assessment of issues and I don't think it reflects how people who are thoughtful actually conduct their lives. I mean if we don't learn, if we don't, you know, make decisions based on the best information we have available, well, you know, that's regrettable. And what I've always tried to do is just say ok, what is the best decision that I can think about making? Now, with those that you did number one on the Iraq war vote, I've written about it, I've talked about it, I said it was a mistake. It certainly became a very clear mistake when you saw the way the Bush administration conducted that war and the decisions that they made. And so I have been very forthright in saying, you know, as I looked at what was happening it was a mistake. On same-sex marriage, like a lot of people, including our president, I did evolve and I was not raised to even imagine this. And I'm thrilled now that it's the law of the land and I have a lot of good friends who are now able to be married because of the changes we've made legally and constitutionally. When it comes to Keystone, you know, I was at the beginning of the process of trying to evaluate what was the best outcome. I did feel that I shouldn't jump in before the President and Secretary Kerry and make my views known because they're still in the middle of that process. But it was frankly uncomfortable to have so many people asking me and my saying I'm waiting and waiting and waiting and it still hasn't happened. I don't know when it will happen. It may have to happen when I'm president, I hope. So I've said I'm against it on the total evaluation. When I made that statement years ago we did not have the kind of energy profile we have. We did not have the full understanding of how the particular oil that would have been extracted from those tar sands was of a different degree of dirtiness and polluting in terms of greenhouse gases. So I'm not going to sit here and tell people that I make up my mind—that's the Republicans. They make up their mind, they're never bothered by evidence. TODD: But Bernie Sanders has been where you are on these issues. Bernie Sanders was there when it came to marriage 20 years ago. Do you think one of the reasons he's doing well right now is some progressives think, well, you know what? He was there when it wasn't popular. CLINTON: Well he can speak for himself and I certainly respect his views. I can just tell you that I am not someone who stakes out a position and holds it regardless of the evidence or regardless of the way that I perceive what's happening in the world around me. As I was saying, that's where the Republicans are. They're still believing in trickle down economics even though it was a disaster not once but twice for our country. So I want people—because I think my experience on these issues is much more reflective of how people talk to me about how they, too, have evolved and moved in their understanding and I feel very comfortable saying that. TODD: Well, I have a lot more questions and the good news is I have a part two interview we're going to do for the new show, my new show "MTP DAILY". So we will get into some foreign policy, domestic policy, a bunch of stuff. Madam Secretary, thanks for coming back to MEET THE PRESS. CLINTON: Thank you, glad to be here.
SHARPTON: First of all, thank you for joining us. What will distinguish a Hillary Clinton presidency if elected from a Barack Obama president? CLINTON: I think where we are today is due in large measure to the tough decisions that President Obama had to make. I really like to take people back through the history and point out that, when President Obama took office, we were losing 800,000 jobs a month, and we could have literally fallen into a great depression, not just a great recession. And because of the hard work of the American people and the president's leadership, we got out of that big ditch. So we are standing again. But now we have to build on what we've accomplished. We have to raise incomes. People are not seeing the results of that recovery in their pockets yet and that's something the president and I have talked about a lot. We have to continue and win the fight to raise the minimum wage because it's disgraceful the people that work full time in America are still in poverty.? We have to win the fight on equal pay for equal work for women. We have to incentivize more profit sharing so the productivity that leads to profitability doesn't just all show up in the paychecks of CEOs but is shared broadly. And then of course we have to continue the fight against climate change, create millions of new jobs from clean renewable energy and have an infrastructure program. I like an infrastructure bank that will put more people to work. So we have a very robust agenda that builds on top of layers on top of the progress that we have made under President Obama. And the worst thing that could happen to our country, in my opinion, is for the Republicans to rip away that progress and to do a big U-turn back to trickle-down economics to slam the door in the face of hard working people, whether it's working women or minorities of any sort or the LGBT community, to basically begin to marginalize and you know, dismiss the contributions of so many of our fellow Americans. SHARPTON: In 2008, president, now President Obama then senator Obama got 18 million votes. You did as well. What do you say to the eight million that didn't vote for you in 2008, why they should support Hillary Clinton now? CLINTON: Well, they are coming to me. I mean, the amount of support I have from people who supported then senator Obama in my race against him in 2008 and then others who have been supporting him ever since is really very gratifying to me. A lot of people are very appreciative of the work I did as secretary of state. They view the fact that I joined the cabinet as the senior cabinet member for my former opponent which I think is what you're supposed to do in our country was a very important statement of values about who we are and our democracy and how we get things done. So I think the number of people both in my campaign and on the ground, around the country who are supporting me who were first and foremost supporters of President Obama speaks very well to their understanding of how hard this job is and how they need to elect somebody, a Democrat, who can build on the successes of the Obama presidency, and that's what I am pledged to do. You know, everywhere I go to speak around the country, I talk about the mess that President Obama inherited from his Republican predecessors, not unlike although much worse than what my husband inherited from his Republican predecessors. And what I say is I'm not running for President Obama's third term or for Bill Clinton's third term. I'm running for my first term. But I know what works and I know how important it is to stand up for our values, to stand up for our interests and our security in a way that makes sense which is smart. So people who have supported President Obama are, you know, very enthusiastic and I'm grateful for that in support of my candidacy. SHARPTON: The debates, the democratic debates s start on the 13th. How do you distinguish yourself from your opponent its, Senator Sanders and Governor O'Malley without the theatrics we've seen on the Republican side. What is the distinguishing factors that you see between you and your opponent? CLINTON: I don't think there's any comparison between, we on the Democratic side and the Republicans. All of the Democrats are saying is we want to continue to improve the lives of hard working Americans. And we have different ways of going about it, about how we want to make college affordable, how we're going to deal with the affordable care act. We have differences, and that's what the debate will be about. But what I want viewers and voters to understand is that the real challenges to the progress we've made are coming from the Republican candidates. So whatever differences we have on the Democratic side, which we will be exploring in the debate to give people a chance to make up their minds among us, it is really not at all the kind of gulf between us and the Republicans. SHARPTON: Any surprises that we can look for in the debate? Just between us. CLINTON: Just between us, well, you know, I don't know. You never know. I'm going to start kind of getting geared up and getting prepared. There are always surprises. You never know what you're going to be asked. You know that so well. And sometimes in the heat of the moment you might not know what you're going to say, but I'm looking forward to it. I think it will be terrific for our campaign. SHARPTON: There is always this looming question of whether vice president Biden is going to enter. Do you expect that he enters? And if he does, how will that, if at all, alter your strategy in terms of denomination? CLINTON: You know, I have said repeatedly that this is a very hard time for the vice president for all the obvious reasons any of us can understand. And he has to have the space and time to make up his mind about what he wants to do and I respect that. I don't comment on it. I want him to do whatever he thinks is right for him and his family. I'm going to run my campaign. I'm going to keep rolling out my policies. I'm going to keep standing up to the Republicans. I think they have really sort of showed their hand. They're really worried about running against me so they want to keep knocking me down. I kind of view that as a badge of respect actually, because they know that I will never give in to their, you know, very poor ideas about the economy or anything else. So I'm going to run my campaign and make my case to the American people. SHARPTON: The fact that you are running and we are seeing different polls say different things, Iowa, New Hampshire, can you lose Iowa and New Hampshire and still win? Is there a path? CLINTON: Well, that certainly has been the case in the past but I'm not going to lose. I'm going to work as hard as I can to make the case in the Iowa caucus and then in the New Hampshire primary. People didn't think I could win the New Hampshire primary last time after I didn't win the Iowa caucus. It's very unpredictable. It is fast moving. But I think at the end of the day when I put forth, you know, my views about what the country should be doing and it is in conjunction with my experience and I think my ability, my determination, my tenacity to get things done, people will respond to that, caucus for me and vote for me. SHARPTON: I'm going to say two words to you, Donald Trump. What do you think? [commercial break]SHARPTON: I'm going to say two words to you, Donald Trump. What do you think? CLINTON: You know, Reverend Al, he has been stalking prejudice and paranoia. He has been really appealing to the worst instincts of human nature. I think it's dangerous, his demagoguery is no longer amusing. SHARPTON: He called you shrill. CLINTON: Well he has called me a lot of things. Now that he's running against me. Before he called me a great senator and great secretary of state. That's what a demagogue does, right? They say whatever they need to say to try to stir up the passions of people. So I hope that he is certainly, you know, someone who people begin to evaluate more carefully, but I will add this. A lot of what he has said has either been echoed or not repudiated by all of the other Republicans. He may be the flamboyant front-runner, but his views on immigration, his views on women, his views on Muslims, his views on a long list of issues are not that different from the either stated or unstated views of everybody on the Republican side. SHARPTON: Jeb Bush said in addressing an issue about why there weren't a lot of blacks at a particular gathering he was addressing, and he, among other things said, they were offered free stuff by Democrats, how do you respond to that? CLINTON: You know, I find that so insulting, so demeaning and condescending, it's the kind of language we've heard not only from Jeb Bush, we heard it from Mitt Romney. We're hearing it from Donald Trump. It's insulting in the most fundamental way because when we as Democrats say, hey, we want equal pay for equal work, we want to raise the minimum wage, we want to make sure people get the best education they can, that college is affordable, that's to build people up. That's to give everybody a chance to be successful in America. There's nothing free about that. That's the way we're supposed to be working in our country, where we want people to live up to the God-given potential that they have. And for Republicans to keep saying that, driving edges, dismissing the legitimate aspirations, the talent and the hard work of Americans or anybody else in our country shows a fundamental misunderstanding of what America is and should be. It needs to be rejected. I don't hear any Republicans rejecting it. But, you know, I had a Facebook Q&A a few days ago. I was just outraged about it. And I'm outraged again when you ask me. SHARPTON: Let me bring you back. When you were a U.S. senator, you and I and others worked in New York around the [inaudible] case. And there are a lot of cases that has happened over the last year calling for police reform and calling for criminal justice reform. What would a president Hillary Clinton do to deal with the police reform question and to deal with the question that many of us are raising on how we have these matters looked at fairly and that families understand that they're getting a fair shot at justice? CLINTON: Absolutely. You know, first speech I gave in this campaign was at former mayor Dinkins' Colloquium at Columbia University. And I addressed systemic racism and failures of our justice system, and called for body cameras on every police officer, called for an end to mass incarceration. And I am continuing to talk about the issues. And I think that President Obama's policing commission has a good set of recommendations that I would certainly urge that we follow and implement. But it's bigger than this, Al. I mean, the real problems go to how we see each other, how we treat each other, whether we're going to get back into respecting one another and that's especially true when you have police who are warrant to protect certain communities and they don't listen to those communities. They don't work with those communities. Now, the communities also have to respect the police. We understand that. But the initiative needs to come from changing a lot of the incentives in policing, changing the way police officers are trained, how they work. And I think with the policing commission that President Obama commissioned, we have good ideas on all of that, that shouldn't just sit on a shelf, we should be implementing. And I think that to a great extent, the movement for black lives matter has been essential in raising up these issue. A new generation has come to the forefront. I've met with some of them, I've certainly been made aware of all the meetings my staff has been having with a lot of the advocates, because we have to restore fundamental faith in our democracy and equal treatment under the law. And we know that doesn't exist right now. And that's a rebuke to all of us. And I'm going to do everything I can to restore trust and confidence and respect by changing behaviors and by holding them accountable, you know. We need to make sure that the civil rights division and the justice department is fully staffed and able to provide a clear look at any issue that needs to be referred to the federal government. SHARPTON: President Clinton, former president Clinton said at the NAACP that when he did the crime bill the Omnibus crime bill that maybe things went too far. And I remember as you know I was active then, a lot of people forget a lot of us wanted something hard because of limp bias and other things that were happening, crack, I was painting crack houses if you remember trying to expose them. How do we deal with violence without adding to the mass incarceration? What would be the Clinton plan? We are seeing these shootings this week in Chicago. CLINTON: Right. SHARPTON: I mean, we've got to deal with this without feeding into where it went "too far" in the words of former president Clinton. CLINTON: Well, both you and he are right. You remember what we were facing in the 1980s and the early 1990s. And people of color, poor communities, lots of towns and cities, including this great city of New York, were under tremendous pressure because there was so much crime, gangs were warring in the streets, crack houses were endemic, crack babies were filling, you know, the wards of our hospitals. And so yes, we did have to take action. But let's remember some of the things that were done that we no longer do. We had a ban on assault weapons. I want us to get back to sensible, smart gun prevention of violence. I want us to have not just universal background checks, but I want us to really have the country rise up against the special interests lobby of the NRA that believes anybody should have a gun, regardless of their past history, regardless of whether they're domestic violence abuser. This is just unsustainable, and we need to stand against it and I'm willing to take them on. Because I know that guns are at the root of so much of the crime and the danger that stalks our neighborhoods. Secondly, we do have to weed out the most violent offenders, you know, the repeat offenders, the guys who have no regard for human life. But our prisons and jails are filled with people who have mental health challenges, people who have substance abuse challenges. They should not be in jail or prison. I want a much more robust diversionary program. I want us to do more on treatment. I think I may be the first presidential candidate at least in a long time who has a whole policy on substance abuse because this is at the root, you know. And so many people with anxiety, with depression, with other mental health problems, they self-medicate with alcohol and drugs, and oftentimes they get off track. We shouldn't punish them. We should help them. I also think that the police have to understand that a lot of what we tried to do back in the day, back in the 1990s and the Clinton administration was to build those relationships between police and community, not to be in two separate camps but to be part of the same effort, to protect citizens, particularly the elderly, particularly the young, to have enough policing that people could feel safe, but not so much that it oppresses people and makes them feel that they are being singled out. This is a hard path to walk, but I know we can do it. We've learned lessons. We have a lot that we now know especially when it comes to imprisoning low level offenders is not necessary to prevent crime on the streets. Let's focus on the bad actors that we don't want setting up crack houses again that you have to go and try to close or joining gangs that are so deadly people are dying across the streets in the country. SHARPTON: Secretary Clinton, thank you so much for being with us this morning. CLINTON: That went by fast. Thanks again. Good to be with you. SHARPTON: Thank you. You and I work together on Sunday mornings usually in church. CLINTON: That's right. I'm glad you're doing this early enough so people can watch before they go to church. SHARPTON: That's right. Thank you. CLINTON: Thank you.
TAPPER: So, congratulations on this new poll number in New Hampshire showing that you're pulling ahead of Bernie Sanders in a state where you have lagged a little. He's from neighboring Vermont—the reviews obviously very positive from many pundits. I'm wondering what the pundit in chief, your husband... [laughter] ... who was in Vegas, I'm wondering what he said to you after the debate. CLINTON: He thought I did a really good job. And I think that's the highest praise that I can ever get, because there's nobody who—whose opinion on these kinds of things I respect more. It was great to have him with me. We had just celebrated our 40th anniversary on Sunday last. So, the fact that he could come and keep me company and keep my spirits up and, you know, drill me on some of the things he thought were important meant a great deal to me. TAPPER: As long as you bring it up, 40 years of marriage. CLINTON: Forty years, Jake, 40 years. [laughter] TAPPER: How—how—what do you know about him now that you didn't know 40 years ago? CLINTON: I am so grateful that we have basically had the opportunity to grow in so many different ways. I'm not going to sit here and tell you or your viewers that it's been a path filled with rose blossoms. It's been challenging. But, overall, looking back at those 40 years, I am so grateful that, after he asked me twice, I finally said yes and have spent these years with him. TAPPER: Turning to the debate, you said at the debate that you're a progressive, but you're a progressive that likes to get things done. Sanders has plans that I think might be fairly called more ambitious than yours, in terms of expanding Medicare for everybody, basically single-payer health care, free college tuition, an across-the-board expansion of Social Security benefits. Do you think he's being unrealistic when he makes these proposals, in terms of what can actually get passed through Congress? CLINTON: Look, I have the highest regard for Senator Sanders. And I think he is raising issues that the electorate, not just Democrats, everybody needs to be thinking about. And he has put forward his plans with passionate intensity. And I have put forth mine. And just think of the difference between us and the Republicans, who have put forth nothing but the same old out-of-touch, out-of-date policies. TAPPER: But why are his plans more ambitious? Is it... CLINTON: Well, his—he has a very ambitious and expansive view about what he thinks should be done with respect to free college and other of the policies that we both are trying to tackle. I believe that my approach, for example, on college, I call it the New College Compact, because I think everybody should have some skin in the game, including students, who I say should work for part of their education. Maybe it's because I did and my husband did, but I think it's something that you want young people to feel really committed to. It's a difference in approach. We will have an opportunity, as these debates go forward, to really dig down. And I'm hoping that whatever network hosts them, whoever the moderator happens to be, that they will really ask us to explain and contrast. But it's a policy difference. I mean, you could see on that stage in Las Vegas how we are maybe approaching these problems with different solutions, but we're both seeing the pressures that American families are under and the challenges that they're facing that we want to try to address. And the differences between us is nothing like the differences we all have with the Republicans. And I want the American people to be part of the debate, and to hear Senator Sanders' perspective and what he's proposing, to hear mine, to make up their mind, and then to remember that we're not peddling the same old failed policies of trickle-down economics and let the corporations do what they want and cut taxes on the wealthy, which is the answer to everything that the Republicans put forth. TAPPER: Speaking of the next debate, you have said in the past that Vice President Biden should have—should take his time, whatever he needs, to make his decision about whether or not to run. But your campaign is now signaling that it might be time for him to make a decision. Your top adviser John Podesta said this week—quote—"I think the time has come for a decision." Has the time come? CLINTON: Well, that's up to Vice President Biden. Obviously, I have... TAPPER: That's your top adviser. CLINTON: Well, and I think what John was saying is that, whether you are encouraging or not, there does come a point where a decision has to be made. But, certainly, I'm not in any way suggesting or recommending that the vice president accept any timetable, other than the one that is clicking inside of him. He has to make this decision. TAPPER: At the debate, you were asked to name the enemy of which you were most proud. [laughter] Among your answers were Republicans. That's about half the country, Republicans. CLINTON: Well, it was a little tongue-in-cheek. But it's clear, I think, to anybody who's been around for a while that, you know, they do seem to enjoy coming after me. But then, once I'm in office, they have always worked with me. And I expect it will be exactly the same. It's funny to me. When I was secretary of state, I had very high support and approval from Republicans, not just the Republican voters, but Republican officeholders. As soon as I got into this presidential election, you know, all of that collapsed again. And I'm just reminding people that, you know, you can be an adversary in politics, but then you do have to come together and figure out how to solve problems. TAPPER: You're talking a lot at the debate and on the stump about further restrictions on gun ownership, gun control. CLINTON: Mm-hmm.?? TAPPER: I remember, in 2008, during the primaries, you were positioning—positioning yourself to the right of President Obama, or then-Senator Obama, on this issue. You talked about respecting how guns are part of the culture, sending out a mailer criticizing then-Senator Obama for pushing tougher gun laws. But now you're coming at Bernie Sanders on this issue from the left. Did something change, or is it just about who you're running against? CLINTON: No, not at all. In fact, I would characterize what happened in '08 very differently. I spent a lot of years in Arkansas. I have a lot of experience with and respect for people who own guns, collect guns, use them for hunting, use them for target shooting. I respect the Second Amendment. I was taught to shoot by my dad when I was a girl. I have gone hunting. I get that. And I don't in any way want to denigrate those responsible gun owners, who have rights under the Second Amendment and our laws. But I believe we have gone way too far in being intimidated by the NRA. And I have said repeatedly that the majority of Americans and the majority of gun owners support universal background checks. And for the NRA to take these absolute positions on behalf of the most extreme of their members and carrying water for gun manufacturers and dealers is just wrong. So, I don't think I have moved at all. I do have more experience perhaps than some in living in places. I represented Upstate New York, which is a big, vast rural area with small towns and cities. So, I get why people who are part of gun ownership are very proud of that. But what I don't get is why we can't have sensible gun safety measures to keep guns out of the hands of fugitives and stalkers and felons and people with serious mental illness and domestic abusers, the people who should not have them in the first place. TAPPER: "The New Yorker" this week published a memo about you, about how to defeat you, by then-Senator Obama's campaign, including your current pollster, who I don't know if has talked to you about this. [laughter] CLINTON: I haven't seen him. [laughter] TAPPER: But, in any case, among other things, the memo said that you are driven by politics, not conviction, and you're constantly shifting, dodging and changing positions to satisfy the politics of the moment. That's kind of the same rap on you from your opponents now. Do you reject it outright? Or do you see why some people might feel that way? CLINTON: Well, I can see why people try to come up with ways of attacking me. That seems to be part of the landscape. It happened when I ran for the Senate. It happened obviously again when I ran for president. But I have been the same person. I have the same values. I have the same principles. There isn't anybody, anybody that I know in politics who hasn't changed a position from time to time, except some Republicans who are impervious to evidence and changed circumstances. So, I really don't pay much mind to that. I'm sure we had some memo somewhere pointing out things that we tried to go after. But that's politics. I get it. But I think anyone who looks at what I have fought for and stood for my entire adult life, on behalf of kids and families and women and the middle class and economic opportunity, knows that I have been very steady. And, yes, do I look at evidence and try to figure out what's the best way forward to achieve the goals that I hold? Yes, I do, do that. TAPPER: Speaking of politics, let's talk about the front-runner on the other side of the aisle, Donald Trump. His daughter Ivanka just gave an interview to CNN. She said her dad—quote—"is not a politician, but he's really changing the dialogue and he's really disrupting the process in a very positive way." Do you agree? CLINTON: Well, first of all, I have a really high regard for her. She is a wonderful young woman. TAPPER: And a friend of Chelsea's, I think. CLINTON: Yes, she is. And I think what she said is borne out by what's been happening. He has brought his oversized personality and his reality television experience to the highest level of American politics, and seems to be getting a very positive response among a large part of the Republican electorate. So, that's up to the Republicans. They have to decide if that will be their nominee or not. I have called him out on some of the things that he has said which I thought were uncalled for, some of the insults and the attacks that he's made on immigrants, on women. And it's just unacceptable, what he let be said about the president. So, I'm going to continue to criticize him for going beyond the bounds of what I think is appropriate for anybody running for president. [commercial break] TAPPER: President Obama announced this week that he's going to go back on his pledge to withdraw all U.S. troops from Afghanistan, a pledge that you supported at the time. If elected, you would inherit 5,500 U.S. troops still in Afghanistan. Can you pledge that you would get all of them out of Afghanistan by the end of your first or second term? CLINTON: You know, Jake, I think what you're seeing with President Obama is a perfect example of a leader who has strong convictions about what he would like to see happen but also pays attention to what's going on in the real world. And his decision is one that I agree with. I will not sit here today and say what I would do upon taking office because, again, we want to bring our troops home. We certainly don't want them engaged in on the ground combat. We want them to help support and train the Afghan army. And we want them to, you know, continue to work with the government of Afghanistan to try to help strengthen security for them. So, I can't predict where things will be in January of 2017. But I support the president's decision. TAPPER: You're scheduled to testify before the Benghazi Committee in the House of Representatives in a few days. What are you expecting and how are you preparing? CLINTON: I really don't know what to expect. I think it's pretty clear that whatever they might have thought they were doing, they ended up becoming a partisan arm of the Republican National Committee with an overwhelming focus on trying to as they admitted drive down my poll numbers. I've already testified about Benghazi. I testified to the best of my ability before the Senate and the House. I don't know that I have very much to add. This is after all the eighth investigation. Other committees of the Congress, standing committees with other experienced members of staff have all looked into this and basically just rejected the conspiracy theories that are still floating out there in some circles. So, I really don't know. I will do my best to answer their questions. But I don't really know what their objective is right now. TAPPER: I covered the Benghazi situation, the Benghazi tragedy when I was a White House correspondent. And there's something I just never really understood. And that is, why did the State Department deny all those security requests? The former regional security officer in Libya, Eric Nordstrom recalled in testimony asking for 12 new security agents. And he was talking to a regional director who said he was asking for the sun, the moon and the stars. It got so bad, Nordstrom said, that he was fighting members of the State Department. It was like having the Taliban on the inside of the building. CLINTON: Well, the accountability review board that I commissioned went into this in great detail. And they made some recommendations. TAPPER: I know, but I guess the question is why, though? Why weren't the security requests, why weren't they made? CLINTON: Well, that was left to the security professionals, Jake. And in the reports, the ones that have been done that were nonpolitical and independent in their efforts to try to sort this through, I think concluded that the security professionals in the State Department had to look worldwide and had to make some tough decisions. That's why we don't inject politics into it. That has to be what the professionals are deciding. And there were a lot of different opinions and that's understandable. There's tough decisions that have to be made. So, I can only point you to the very thorough review that several committees have done starting with the accountability review board that have gone into this in great detail and made recommendations about how we can better make those assessments. Not at the political level, because I don't think a secretary of state who may be there for four years or two years should be reaching down in and making those decisions. But we have to do a better job with the professionals charged with making the decisions so that the information can all be evaluated and the resources that are needed can be asked for and deployed to the best extent. TAPPER: I know Bernie Sanders said that, quote, "the American people are sick and tired of hearing about your damn e-mails." [laughter] But there are a lot of people who are not. CLINTON: Well -- [laughter] TAPPER: Including FBI officials looking into whether national security was compromised because of this server. And this is something else that is very confusing to me. With all your experience, why wouldn't you anticipate that over the course of four years, handling very sensitive diplomatic negotiations, overseeing military interventions and surveillance, why wouldn't you anticipate that something classified, whether about North Korea or Iran or drones or an informant for the CIA, that it wouldn't be e-mailed to you? And why wouldn't you consider that having it on your personal account with some server in Colorado might be a potential risk? CLINTON: Well, first of all, nothing—and I will underscore, nothing that I was sent or that I sent was marked classified. We have a system in our government, in our State Department, it was there before I came in. TAPPER: Right. CLINTON: It has continued after I left where there are decisions made about what is classified information in real time. And nothing was marked classified. TAPPER: The inspector general of the intelligence community said some of this stuff contained classified information when it was generated whether or not it was marked classified. CLINTON: Well, that is just a very strong difference of opinion. The State Department does not agree with that. And it is almost an impossible standard because we had two separate systems. We had the unclassified system, so anybody on the unclassified system with the State Department would only be able to tell if something were classified if it were marked classified. We dealt with classified information on a totally different system. Nobody had access to that from an unclassified device. So, I think a lot of this is being a public display of the very common arguments that go on between different agencies in our government. This happens every time there is a Freedom of Information Act request. If something's going to be made public that was not classified at the time, maybe something has happened years later that there's a case and so now, it's sensitive information. That's what's going on here. Different agencies are weighing in saying, yes, it wasn't classified, but we think that there is something in it that now we're going to say is sensitive. At the time there was nothing marked classified. And that is the fact that hasn't changed. TAPPER: Right. And you said it was allowed too. CLINTON: Yes, it was. TAPPER: Who allowed it? CLINTON: It was allowed under the rules of State Department. Again—TAPPER: So nobody signed off on it? CLINTON: No, no, it was allowed. You know, one of my predecessors did the same thing. Others in our government have done the same thing at very high levels, because the rules did change after I left State Department. But at the time and in prior years, the rules allowed it. TAPPER: But it never occurred to you when any of these e-mails coming in from Sid Blumenthal with very sensitive information—CLINTON: Sid Blumenthal was not a government employee or official. It would be like you sending me something, Jake. If I thought it had some interest to it, I might forward it onto somebody. But I would not expect you to be in a position to classify anything because you were not in that classification process. Neither was he. So, he sent me stuff that he heard from people. You know, he's an old journalist and thought it was of interest. Some of it I sent on, some I didn't. I kind of made the judgment at the time. It was not in the category of anything that could be classified because it came from an outside nongovernment person passing on what somebody told somebody told him. And, look, I'm somebody who thinks the government and people who work in it should be open to getting information from different sources. I mean, you wrote a book about Afghanistan. If during the course of my being secretary of state, you had sent me an e-mail saying, look, I think the government needs to know this, and I thought, hey, that's a good point I'll send it on and six years later they say, oh, my gosh, he was reporting sensitive information. Well, you didn't know that. And I certainly didn't know that. So, I think that this is a complicated issue for even sophisticated folks to understand. And I just keep going back to we have two different systems. I dealt with classified information very carefully and seriously. I usually met with people to discuss it. It was delivered to me in hard copy so marked. And then when I traveled, I had one of those tents because we were afraid of prying eyes from certain governments that I would read classified material in. So, I'm very familiar with the importance of treating classified information as it should be with great care. TAPPER: Can I get your e-mail address? CLINTON: Sure. You want to send me something that might be interesting? TAPPER: I'm just wondering for the future. I haven't had that kind of relationship with you, but if that was like a hidden offer. CLINTON: Yes, sure. You can give me, you know, what you hear politically. I might make use of it. TAPPER: Sure. Madam Secretary, thanks so much for your time. I really appreciate it. CLINTON: Great. Nice to talk to you. TAPPER: Congratulations on the debate. CLINTON: Tank you. Thank you very much.
TAPPER: We have got another exclusive interview for you good people this morning, this one with Democratic front-runner Hillary Clinton, fresh off a widely lauded debate performance watched by a record-setting 15 million people, enough to put her back on top in New Hampshire, according to one poll, where Bernie Sanders had pulled ahead of her in recent months. We met up with Clinton in the Granite State. So, congratulations on this new poll number in New Hampshire showing that you're pulling ahead of Bernie Sanders in a state where you have lagged a little. He's from neighboring Vermont—the reviews obviously very positive from many pundits. I'm wondering what the pundit in chief, your husband... [laughter] ...who was in Vegas, I'm wondering what he said to you after the debate. CLINTON: He thought I did a really good job. And I think that's the highest praise that I can ever get, because there's nobody who—whose opinion on these kinds of things I respect more. It was great to have him with me. We had just celebrated our 40th anniversary on Sunday last. So, the fact that he could come and keep me company and keep my spirits up and, you know, drill me on some of the things he thought were important meant a great deal to me. TAPPER: As long as you bring it up, 40 years of marriage. CLINTON: Forty years, Jake, 40 years. [laughter] TAPPER: How—how—what do you know about him now that you didn't know 40 years ago? CLINTON: I am so grateful that we have basically had the opportunity to grow in so many different ways. I'm not going to sit here and tell you or your viewers that it's been a path filled with rose blossoms. It's been challenging. But, overall, looking back at those 40 years, I am so grateful that, after he asked me twice, I finally said yes and have spent these years with him. TAPPER: Turning to the debate, you said at the debate that you're a progressive, but you're a progressive that likes to get things done. Sanders has plans that I think might be fairly called more ambitious than yours, in terms of expanding Medicare for everybody, basically single-payer health care, free college tuition, an across-the-board expansion of Social Security benefits. Do you think he's being unrealistic when he makes these proposals, in terms of what can actually get passed through Congress? CLINTON: Look, I have the highest regard for Senator Sanders. And I think he is raising issues that the electorate, not just Democrats, everybody needs to be thinking about. And he has put forward his plans with passionate intensity. And I have put forth mine. And just think of the difference between us and the Republicans, who have put forth nothing but the same old out-of-touch, out-of-date policies. TAPPER: But why are his plans more ambitious? Is it... CLINTON: Well, his—he has a very ambitious and expansive view about what he thinks should be done with respect to free college and other of the policies that we both are trying to tackle. I believe that my approach, for example, on college, I call it the New College Compact, because I think everybody should have some skin in the game, including students, who I say should work for part of their education. Maybe it's because I did and my husband did, but I think it's something that you want young people to feel really committed to. It's a difference in approach. We will have an opportunity, as these debates go forward, to really dig down. And I'm hoping that whatever network hosts them, whoever the moderator happens to be, that they will really ask us to explain and contrast. But it's a policy difference. I mean, you could see on that stage in Las Vegas how we are maybe approaching these problems with different solutions, but we're both seeing the pressures that American families are under and the challenges that they're facing that we want to try to address. And the differences between us is nothing like the differences we all have with the Republicans. And I want the American people to be part of the debate, and to hear Senator Sanders' perspective and what he's proposing, to hear mine, to make up their mind, and then to remember that we're not peddling the same old failed policies of trickle-down economics and let the corporations do what they want and cut taxes on the wealthy, which is the answer to everything that the Republicans put forth. TAPPER: Speaking of the next debate, you have said in the past that Vice President Biden should have—should take his time, whatever he needs, to make his decision about whether or not to run. But your campaign is now signaling that it might be time for him to make a decision. Your top adviser John Podesta said this week—quote—"I think the time has come for a decision." Has the time come? CLINTON: Well, that's up to Vice President Biden. Obviously, I have... TAPPER: That's your top adviser. CLINTON: Well, and I think what John was saying is that, whether you are encouraging or not, there does come a point where a decision has to be made. But, certainly, I'm not in any way suggesting or recommending that the vice president accept any timetable, other than the one that is clicking inside of him. He has to make this decision. TAPPER: At the debate, you were asked to name the enemy of which you were most proud. [laughter] Among your answers were Republicans. That's about half the country, Republicans. CLINTON: Well, it was a little tongue-in-cheek. But it's clear, I think, to anybody who's been around for a while that, you know, they do seem to enjoy coming after me. But then, once I'm in office, they have always worked with me. And I expect it will be exactly the same. It's funny to me. When I was secretary of state, I had very high support and approval from Republicans, not just the Republican voters, but Republican officeholders. As soon as I got into this presidential election, you know, all of that collapsed again. And I'm just reminding people that, you know, you can be an adversary in politics, but then you do have to come together and figure out how to solve problems. TAPPER: You're talking a lot at the debate and on the stump about further restrictions on gun ownership, gun control. CLINTON: Mm-hmm. TAPPER: I remember, in 2008, during the primaries, you were positioning—positioning yourself to the right of President Obama, or then-Senator Obama, on this issue. You talked about respecting how guns are part of the culture, sending out a mailer criticizing then-Senator Obama for pushing tougher gun laws. But now you're coming at Bernie Sanders on this issue from the left. Did something change, or is it just about who you're running against? CLINTON: No, not at all. In fact, I would characterize what happened in '08 very differently. I spent a lot of years in Arkansas. I have a lot of experience with and respect for people who own guns, collect guns, use them for hunting, use them for target shooting. I respect the Second Amendment. I was taught to shoot by my dad when I was a girl. I have gone hunting. I get that. And I don't in any way want to denigrate those responsible gun owners, who have rights under the Second Amendment and our laws. But I believe we have gone way too far in being intimidated by the NRA. And I have said repeatedly that the majority of Americans and the majority of gun owners support universal background checks. And for the NRA to take these absolute positions on behalf of the most extreme of their members and carrying water for gun manufacturers and dealers is just wrong. So, I don't think I have moved at all. I do have more experience perhaps than some in living in places. I represented Upstate New York, which is a big, vast rural area with small towns and cities. So, I get why people who are part of gun ownership are very proud of that. But what I don't get is why we can't have sensible gun safety measures to keep guns out of the hands of fugitives and stalkers and felons and people with serious mental illness and domestic abusers, the people who should not have them in the first place. TAPPER: "The New Yorker" this week published a memo about you, about how to defeat you, by then-Senator Obama's campaign, including your current pollster, who I don't know if has talked to you about this. [laughter] CLINTON: I haven't seen him. [laughter] TAPPER: But, in any case, among other things, the memo said that you are driven by politics, not conviction, and you're constantly shifting, dodging and changing positions to satisfy the politics of the moment. That's kind of the same rap on you from your opponents now. Do you reject it outright? Or do you see why some people might feel that way? CLINTON: Well, I can see why people try to come up with ways of attacking me. That seems to be part of the landscape. It happened when I ran for the Senate. It happened obviously again when I ran for president. But I have been the same person. I have the same values. I have the same principles. There isn't anybody, anybody that I know in politics who hasn't changed a position from time to time, except some Republicans who are impervious to evidence and changed circumstances. So, I really don't pay much mind to that. I'm sure we had some memo somewhere pointing out things that we tried to go after. But that's politics. I get it. But I think anyone who looks at what I have fought for and stood for my entire adult life, on behalf of kids and families and women and the middle class and economic opportunity, knows that I have been very steady. And, yes, do I look at evidence and try to figure out what's the best way forward to achieve the goals that I hold? Yes, I do, do that. TAPPER: Speaking of politics, let's talk about the front-runner on the other side of the aisle, Donald Trump. His daughter Ivanka just gave an interview to CNN. She said her dad—quote—"is not a politician, but he's really changing the dialogue and he's really disrupting the process in a very positive way." Do you agree? CLINTON: Well, first of all, I have a really high regard for her. She is a wonderful young woman. TAPPER: And a friend of Chelsea's, I think. CLINTON: Yes, she is. And I think what she said is borne out by what's been happening. He has brought his oversized personality and his reality television experience to the highest level of American politics, and seems to be getting a very positive response among a large part of the Republican electorate. So, that's up to the Republicans. They have to decide if that will be their nominee or not. I have called him out on some of the things that he has said which I thought were uncalled for, some of the insults and the attacks that he's made on immigrants, on women. And it's just unacceptable, what he let be said about the president. So, I'm going to continue to criticize him for going beyond the bounds of what I think is appropriate for anybody running for president. TAPPER: Stay with us. We're going to take a very quick break. Coming up: what Clinton is expecting this week with the congressional committee she calls a partisan sham. [begin video clip] CLINTON: But I don't really know what their objective is right now. [end video clip] [commercial break]TAPPER: Hillary Clinton heads to Congress Thursday to appear before the committee investigating the Benghazi attacks. I asked her about it in our exclusive interview. You're scheduled to testify before the Benghazi committee and the House of Representatives in a few days. What are you expecting and how are you preparing? CLINTON: I really don't know what to expect. I think it's pretty clear that whatever they might have thought they were doing they ended up becoming a partisan arm of the Republican National Committee with an overwhelming focus on trying to—as they admitted, drive down my poll numbers. I already testified about Benghazi. I testified to the best of my ability before the Senate and the House. I don't know if that I have very much to add. This is after all, the eighth investigation. Other committees of the Congress, standing committees with very experienced members and staff have all looked into this and basically just rejected the conspiracy theories that are still floating out there in some circles. So I really don't know. I will do my best to answer their questions, but I don't really know what their objective is right now. TAPPER: I covered the Benghazi situation, the Benghazi tragedy when I was a White House correspondent and there's something I just never really understood and that is why did the State Department deny all those security requests? The former regional security officer in Libya Eric Nordstrom recalled in testimony asking for 12 new security agents and he was talking to a regional director who said he was asking for the sun, the moon, and the stars. It got so bad Nordstrom said, that he said that he was fighting members of the State Department. It was like having the Taliban on the inside of the building. CLINTON: Well, the accountability review board that I commissioned went into this in great detail, and they made some recommendations. TAPPER: I know, but I guess the question is why, though? Why didn't the security requests, why weren't they made? CLINTON: Well, that was left to the security professionals, Jake. And in the reports, the ones that have been done that were nonpolitical and independent in their efforts to try to sort this through I think concluded that the security professionals in the State Department had to look worldwide and had to make some tough decisions. That's why we don't inject politics into it. That has to be what the professionals are deciding. And there were a lot of different opinions and that's understandable. There's tough decisions that have to be made. So I can only point you to the very thorough review that several committees have done starting with the accountability review board that have gone into this in great deal and made recommendations about how we can better make those assessments. Not at the political level, because I don't think a secretary of state who may be there for four years or two years should be reaching down in and making those decisions, but we have to do a better job with the professionals charged with making the decisions so that the information can all be evaluated and the resources that are need can be asked for and deployed to the best extent. TAPPER: I know Bernie Sanders said that, quote, "the American people are sick and tired of hearing about your damn e-mails." But there are a lot of people who are not... CLINTON: Well—TAPPER: ... including FBI officials looking into whether national security was comprised because of this server. And this is—this is something else that is very confusing to me with all your experience why wouldn't you anticipate that over the course of four years handling very sensitive diplomatic negotiations, overseeing military interventions and surveillance why wouldn't you anticipate that something classified whether about North Korea, or Iran, or drones or an informant for the CIA that it—that it wouldn't be e-mailed to you? And why wouldn't you consider that having it on your personal account with some server in Colorado might be a potential risk? CLINTON: Well, first of all, nothing and I will underscore nothing that I was sent or that I sent was marked classified. We have a system in our government, in our State Department. It was there before I came in. TAPPER: Right. CLINTON: It has continued after I left where there are decisions made about what is classified information in real time and nothing was marked classified. TAPPER: The inspector general of the intelligence community said some of this stuff contained classified information when it was generated whether or not it was marked classify. CLINTON: Well, that is just a very strong difference of opinion. The State Department does not agree with that. And it is almost an impossible standard because we had two separate systems. We had the unclassified systems, so anybody who was on the unclassified system with the State Department would only be able to tell if something were classified if it were marked classified. We dealt with classified information on a totally different system. Nobody had access to that from an unclassified device. So, I think a lot of this is being a public display of the very common arguments that go on between different agencies and our government. This happens every time there is a Freedom of Information Act request. If something is going to be made public that was not classified at the time, maybe something has happened years later that there's a case and so now it's sensitive information. That's what's going on here. Different agencies are weighing in and saying, yes, it wasn't classified but we think that there is something in it that now we're going to say is sensitive. You know, at the time there was nothing marked classified. And that is the fact that hasn't changed ever since—TAPPER: Right. And you said it was allowed, too. CLINTON: Yes, it was. TAPPER: Who allowed it? CLINTON: It was allowed under the rules of the State Department. And again—TAPPER: So nobody signed off on it? CLINTON: No, no. It was allowed. You know, one of my predecessors did the same thing. Others in our government have done the same thing at very high levels because the rules did change after I left the State Department. But at the time and in prior years the rules allowed it.
CLINTON: Thank you. Thank you very much. [applause] Thank you, Richard. And thanks for the great work that the council does under your leadership. It truly is an important resource for us all. Fareed, I look forward to having the conversation with you, everyone here at the council, and Mr. Mayor. Thank you very much for being here and for everything you are doing and will do to keep our city safe and strong. I'm very grateful. I wanted to come here to our city, which has shown such resilience in the face of terrorism, to talk about the events of the past week, and the work we must do together to protect our country and our friends. When the United States was hit on 9/11, our allies treated that attack against one as an attack against all. Now, it's our turn to stand in solidarity with France and all of our friends. We cherish the same values. We face the same adversaries. We must share the same determination. After a major terrorist attack, every society faces a choice between fear and resolve. The world's great democracies can't sacrifice our values or turn our backs on those in need. Therefore, we must choose resolve. And we must lead the world to meet this threat. Now, let's be clear about what we're facing. Beyond Paris in recent days, we've seen deadly terrorist attacks in Nigeria, Lebanon, Iraq and Turkey, and a Russian civilian airline destroyed over the Sinai. At the heart of today's new landscape of terror is ISIS. They persecute religious and ethnic minorities; kidnap and behead civilians; murder children. They systematically enslave, torture and rape women and girls. ISIS operates across three mutually reinforcing dimensions: a physical enclave in Iraq and Syria; an international terrorist network that includes affiliates across the region and beyond; and an ideological movement of radical jihadism. We have to target and defeat all three, and time is of the essence. ISIS is demonstrating new ambition, reach and capabilities. We have to break the group's momentum and then its back. Our goal is not to deter or contain ISIS, but to defeat and destroy ISIS. But we have learned that we can score victories over terrorist leaders and networks, only to face metastasizing threats down the road, so we also have to play and win the long game. We should pursue a comprehensive counterterrorism strategy, one that embeds our mission against ISIS within a broader struggle against radical jihadism that is bigger than any one group, whether it's Al Qaida or ISIS or some other network. An immediate war against an urgent enemy and a generational struggle against an ideology with deep roots will not be easily torn out. It will require sustained commitment in every pillar of American power. This is a worldwide fight, and American must lead it. Our strategy should have three main elements. One, defeat ISIS in Syria, Iraq and across the Middle East; two, disrupt and dismantle the growing terrorist infrastructure that facilitates the flow of fighters, financing arms and propaganda around the world; three, harden our defenses and those of our allies against external and homegrown threats. Let me start with the campaign to defeat ISIS across the region. The United States and our international coalition has been conducting this fight for more than a year. It's time to begin a new phase and intensify and broaden our efforts to smash the would-be caliphate and deny ISIS control of territory in Iraq and Syria. That starts with a more effective coalition air campaign, with more allied planes, more strikes and a broader target set. A key obstacle standing in the way is a shortage of good intelligence about ISIS and its operations, so we need an immediate intelligence surge in the region, including technical assets, Arabic speakers with deep expertise in the Middle East and even closer partnership with regional intelligence services. Our goal should be to achieve the kind of penetration we accomplished with Al Qaida in the past. This would help us identify and eliminate ISIS' command and control and its economic lifelines. A more effective coalition air campaign is necessary, but not sufficient, and we should be honest about the fact that to be successful, airstrikes will have to be combined with ground forces actually taking back more territory from ISIS. Like President Obama, I do not believe that we should again have 100,000 American troops in combat in the Middle East. That is just not the smart move to make here. If we have learned anything from 15 years of war in Iraq and Afghanistan, it's that local people and nations have to secure their own communities. We can help them, and we should, but we cannot substitute for them. But we can and should support local and regional ground forces in carrying out this mission. Now, the obstacles to achieving this are significant. On the Iraqi side of the border, Kurdish forces have fought bravely to defend their own lands and to re-take towns from ISIS, but the Iraqi national army has struggled, and it's going to take more work to get it up to fighting shape. As part of that process, we may have to give our own troops advising and training the Iraqis greater freedom of movement and flexibility, including embedding in local units and helping target airstrikes. Ultimately, however, a ground campaign in Iraq will only succeed if more Iraqi Sunnis join the fight. But that won't happen so long as they do not feel they have a stake in their country or confidence in their own security and capacity to confront ISIS. Now, we've been in a similar place before in Iraq. In the first Sunni awakening in 2007, we were able to provide sufficient support and assurances to the Sunni tribes to persuade them to join us in rooting out Al Qaida. Unfortunately, under Prime Minister Maliki's rule, those tribes were betrayed and forgotten. So the task of bringing Sunnis off the sidelines into this new fight will be considerably more difficult. But nonetheless, we need to lay the foundation for a second Sunni awakening. We need to put sustained pressure on the government in Baghdad to get its political house in order, move forward with national reconciliation, and finally stand up a national guard. Baghdad needs to accept, even embrace, arming Sunni and Kurdish forces in the war against ISIS. But if Baghdad won't do that, the coalition should do so directly. On the Syrian side, the big obstacle to getting more ground forces to engage ISIS, beyond the Syrian Kurds who are already deep in the fight, is that the viable Sunni opposition groups remain understandably preoccupied with fighting Assad who, let us remember, has killed many more Syrians than the terrorists have. But they are increasingly under threat from ISIS as well. So we need to move simultaneously toward a political solution to the civil war that paves the way for a new government with new leadership, and to encourage more Syrians to take on ISIS as well. To support them, we should immediately deploy the special operations force President Obama has already authorized, and be prepared to deploy more as more Syrians get into the fight. And we should retool and ramp up our efforts to support and equip viable Syrian opposition units. Our increased support should go hand in hand with increased support from our Arab and European partners, including special forces who can contribute to the fight on the ground. We should also work with the coalition and the neighbors to impose no-fly zones that will stop Assad from slaughtering civilians and the opposition from the air. Opposition forces on the ground, with material support from the coalition, could then help create safe areas where Syrians could remain in the country, rather than fleeing toward Europe. This combined approach would help enable the opposition to retake the remaining stretch of the Turkish border from ISIS, choking off its supply lines. It would also give us new leverage in the diplomatic process that Secretary Kerry is pursuing. Of course, we've been down plenty of diplomatic dead-ends before in this conflict. But we have models for how seemingly intractable multi-sectarian civil wars do eventually end. We can learn lessons from Lebanon and Bosnia about what it will take. And Russia and Iran have to face the fact that continuing to prop up a vicious dictator will not bring stability. Right now, I'm afraid, President Putin is actually making things somewhat worse. Now, to be clear, though, there is an important role for Russia to help in resolving the conflict in Syria. And we have indicated a willingness to work with them toward an outcome that preserves Syria as a unitary, nonsectarian state, with protections for the rights of all Syrians and to keep key state institutions intact. There is no alternative to a political transition that allows Syrians to end Assad's rule. Now, much of this strategy on both sides of the border hinges on the roles of our Arab and Turkish partners. And we must get them to carry their share of the burden, with military intelligence and financial contributions, as well as using their influence with fighters and tribes in Iraq and Syria. Countries like Jordan have offered more, and we should take them up on it, because ultimately our efforts will only succeed if the Arabs and Turks step up in a much bigger way. This is their fight and they need to act like it. So far, however, Turkey has been more focused on the Kurds than on countering ISIS. And to be fair, Turkey has a long and painful history with Kurdish terrorist groups. But the threat from ISIS cannot wait. As difficult as it may be, we need to get Turkey to stop bombing Kurdish fighters in Syria who are battling ISIS, and become a full partner in our coalition efforts against ISIS. The United States should also work with our Arab partners to get them more invested in the fight against ISIS. At the moment, they're focused in other areas because of their concerns in the region, especially the threat from Iran. That's why the Saudis, for example, shifted attention from Syria to Yemen. So we have to work out a common approach. In September, I laid out a comprehensive plan to counter Iranian influence across the region and its support for terrorist proxies such as Hezbollah and Hamas. We cannot view Iran and ISIS as separate challenges. Regional politics are too interwoven. Raising the confidence of our Arab partners and raising the costs to Iran for bad behavior will contribute to a more effective fight against ISIS. And as we work out a broader regional approach, we should, of course, be closely consulting with Israel, our strongest ally in the Middle East. Israel increasingly shares with our Arab partners and has the opportunity to do more in intelligence and joint efforts as well. Now, we should have no illusions about how difficult the mission before us really is. We have to fit a lot of pieces together, bring along a lot of partners, move on multiple fronts at once. But if we press forward on both sides of the border, in the air and on the ground, as well as diplomatically, I do believe we can crush ISIS's enclave of terror. And to support this campaign, Congress should swiftly pass an updated authorization to use military force. That will send a message to friend and foe alike that the United States is committed to this fight. The time for delay is over. We should get this done. Now, the second element of our strategy looks beyond the immediate battlefield of Iraq and Syria, to disrupt and dismantle global terrorist infrastructure on the ground and online. A terror pipeline that facilitates the flow of fighters, financing, arms and propaganda around the world has allowed ISIS to strike at the heart of Paris last week and an Al Qaida affiliate to do the same at Charlie Hebdo earlier this year. ISIS is working hard to extend its reach, establish affiliates and cells far from its home base, and despite the significant setbacks it has encountered, not just with ISIS and its ambitious plans, but even Al Qaida, including the death of Osama bin Laden, they are still posing great threats to so many. Let's take one example. We've had a lot of conversation about ISIS in the last week, let's not forget Al Qaida. They still have the most sophisticated bombmakers, ambitious plotters and active affiliates in places like Yemen and North Africa, so we can't just focus on Iraq and Syria, we need to intensify our counter—our counterterrorism efforts on a wider scope. Most urgent is stopping the flow of foreign fighters to and from the war zones of the Middle East. Thousands—thousands of young recruits have flocked to Syria from France, Germany, Belgium, the United Kingdom and, yes, even the United States. Their western passports make it easier for them to cross borders and eventually return home radicalized and battle hardened. Stemming this tide will require much better coordination and information-sharing among countries every step of the way. We should not stop pressing until Turkey, where most foreign fighters cross into Syria, finally locks down its border. The United States and our allies need to know and share the identities of every fighter who has traveled to Syria. We also have to be smart and target interventions that will have the greatest impact. For example, we need a greater focus on shutting down key enablers who arrange transportation, documents and more. When it comes to terrorist financing, we have to go after the nodes that facilitate illicit trade and transactions. The U.N. Security Council should update its terrorism sanctions. They have a resolution that does try to block terrorist financing and other enabling activities, but we have to place more obligations on countries to police their own banks, and the United States, which has quite a record of success in this area, can share more intelligence to help other countries. And once and for all, the Saudis, the Qataris and others need to stop their citizens from directly funding extremist organizations as well as the schools and mosques around the world that have set too many young people on a path to radicalization. When it comes to blocking terrorist recruitment, we have to identify the hotspots, the specific neighborhoods and villages, the prisons and schools where recruitment happens in clusters, like the neighborhood in Brussels where the Paris attacks were planned. Through partnerships with local law enforcement and civil society, especially with Muslim community leaders, we have to work to tip the balance away from extremism in these hotspots. Radicalization and recruitment also is happening online. There's no doubt we have to do a better job contesting online space, including websites and chat rooms where jihadists communicate with followers. We must deny them virtual territory just as we deny them actual territory. At the State Department, I built up a unit of communication specialists fluent in Urdu, Arabic, Somali and other languages to battle with extremists online. We need more of that, including from the private sector. Social media companies can also do their part by swiftly shutting down terrorist accounts, so they're not used to plan, provoke or celebrate violence. Online or off-line, the bottom line is that we are in a contest of ideas against an ideology of hate, and we have to win. Let's be clear, though, Islam is not our adversary. Muslims are peaceful and tolerant people, and have nothing whatsoever to do with terrorism. The obsession in some quarters with a clash of civilization, or repeating the specific words radical Islamic terrorism isn't just a distraction, it gives these criminals, these murderers more standing than they deserve. It actually plays into their hands by alienating partners we need by our side. Our priority should be how to fight the enemy. In the end, it didn't matter what kind of terrorist we call bin Laden, it mattered that we killed bin Laden. But we still can't close our eyes to the fact that there is a distorted and dangerous stream of extremism within the Muslim world that continues to spread. Its adherents are relatively few in number, but capable of causing profound damage, most especially to their own communities throughout an arc of instability that stretches from North and West Africa to Asia. Overlapping conflicts, collapsing state structures, widespread corruption, poverty and repression have created openings for extremists to exploit. Before the Arab Spring, I warned that the region's foundations would sink into the sand without immediate reforms. Well, the need has only grown more urgent. We have to join with our partners to do the patient's steady work of empowering moderates and marginalizing extremists; supporting democratic institutions and the rule of law; creating economic growth that supports stability; working to curb corruption, helping training effective and accountable law enforcement, intelligence and counterterrorism services. As we do this, we must be building up a global counterterrorism infrastructure that is more active and adaptable than the terror networks we're trying to defeat. When I became secretary of State, I was surprised to find that nearly a decade after 9/11, there was still no dedicated international vehicle to regularly convene key countries to deal with terrorist threats. So, we created the Global Counterterrorism Forum, which now brings together nearly 30 countries, many from the Muslim world. It should be a clearing house for directing assistance to countries that need it, for mobilizing common action against threats. And let's not lose sight of the global cooperation needed to lock down loose nuclear material and chemical and biological weapons, and keep them out of the hands of terrorists. At the end of the day, we still must be prepared to go after terrorists wherever they plot using all the tools at our disposal, that includes targeted strikes by U.S. military aircraft and drones, with proper safeguards when there are any other viable options to deal with continuing imminent threats. All of this—stopping foreign fighters, blocking terrorist financing, doing battle in cyberspace—is vital to the war against ISIS, but it also lays the foundation for defusing and defeating the next threat and the one after that. Now, the third element of our strategy has to be hardening our defenses at home and helping our partners do the same against both external and home-grown threats. After 9/11, the United States made a lot of progress breaking down bureaucratic barriers to allow for more and better information sharing among agencies responsible for keeping us safe. We still have work to do on this front, but by comparison, Europe is way behind. Today, European nations don't even always alert each other when they turn away a suspected jihadist at the border, or when a passport is stolen. It seems like after most terrorist attacks, we find out that the perpetrators were known to some security service or another, but too often the dots never get connected. I appreciate how hard this is, especially given the sheer number of suspects and threats, but this has to change. The United States must work with Europe to dramatically and immediately improve intelligence sharing and counterterrorism coordination. European countries also should have the flexibility to enhance their border controls when circumstances warrant. And here at home, we face a number of our own challenges. The threat to airline security is evolving as terrorists develop new devices like nonmetallic bombs. So our defenses have to stay at least one step ahead. We know that intelligence gathered and shared by local law enforcement officers is absolutely critical to breaking up plots and preventing attacks. So they need all the resources and support we can give them. Law enforcement also needs the trust of residents and communities, including in our own country Muslim Americans. Now, this should go without saying, but in the current climate, it bears repeating. Muslim Americans are working every day on the front lines of the fight against radicalization. Another challenge is how to strike the right balance of protecting privacy and security. Encryption of mobile communications presents a particularly tough problem. We should take the concerns of law enforcement and counterterrorism professionals seriously. They have warned that impenetrable encryption may prevent them from accessing terrorist communications and preventing a future attack. On the other hand, we know there are legitimate concerns about government intrusion, network security, and creating new vulnerabilities that bad actors can and would exploit. So we need Silicon Valley not to view government as its adversary. We need to challenge our best minds in the private sector to work with our best minds in the public sector to develop solutions that will both keep us safe and protect our privacy. Now is the time to solve this problem, not after the next attack. Since Paris, no homeland security challenge is being more hotly debated than how to handle Syrian refugees seeking safety in the United States. Our highest priority, of course, must always be protecting the American people. So yes, we do need to be vigilant in screening and vetting any refugees from Syria, guided by the best judgment of our security professionals, in close coordination with our allies and partners. And Congress need to make sure the necessary resources are provided for comprehensive background checks, drawing on the best intelligence we can get. And we should be taking a close look at the safeguards in the visa programs as well, but we cannot allow terrorists to intimidate us into abandoning our values and our humanitarian obligations. Turning away orphans, applying a religious test, discriminating against Muslims, slamming the door on every Syrian refugee, that is just not who we are. We are better than that. And remember, many of these refugees are fleeing the same terrorists who threaten us. It would be a cruel irony indeed if ISIS can force families from their homes and then also prevent them from ever finding new ones. We should be doing more to ease this humanitarian crisis, not less. We should lead the international community in organizing a donor conference and supporting countries like Jordan who are sheltering the majority of refugees fleeing Syria. And we can get this right. America's open, free, tolerant society is described by some as a vulnerability in the struggle against terrorism, but I actually believe it's one of our strengths. It reduces the appeal of radicalism and enhances the richness and resilience of our communities. This is not a time for scoring political points. When New York was attacked on 9/11, we had a Republican president, a Republican governor and a Republican mayor, and I worked with all of them. We pulled together and put partisanship aside to rebuild our city and protect our country. This is a time for American leadership. No other country can rally the world to defeat ISIS and win the generational struggle against radical jihadism. Only the United States can mobilize common action on a global scale, and that's exactly what we need. The entire world must be part of this fight, but we must lead it. There's been a lot of talk lately about coalitions. Everyone seems to want one, but there's not nearly as much talk about what it actually takes to make a coalition work in the heat and pressure of an international crisis. I know how hard this is because we've done it before. To impose the toughest sanctions in history on Iran, to stop a dictator from slaughtering his people in Libya, to support a fledgling democracy in Afghanistan, we have to use every pillar of American power—military and diplomacy, development and economic and cultural influence, technology and maybe most importantly our values. That is smart power. We have to work with institutions and partners like NATO, the E.U., the Arab League and the U.N., strengthen our alliances and never get tired of old-fashioned shoe leather diplomacy, and if necessary be prepared to act decisively on our own, just as we did it to bring Osama bin Laden to justice. The United States and our allies must demonstrate that free people and free markets are still the hope of humanity. This past week, as I watched the tragic scenes from France, I kept thinking back to a young man in the world met in January after the last attack in Paris. His name was Lassana, a Muslim immigrant from Mali who worked at a kosher market. He said the market had become a new home and his colleagues and customers a second family. When the terrorist arrived and the gunfire began, Lassana risked his life to protect his Jewish customers. He moved quickly, hiding as many people as he could in the cold storage room, and then slipping out to help the police. "I didn't know or care, he said, if they were Jews or Christians or Muslims. We're all in the same boat." What a rebuke to the extremists' hatred. The French government announced it would grant Lassana full citizenship. But when it mattered most, he proved he was a citizen already. That's the power of free people. That's what the jihadis will never understand and never defeat. And as we meet here today, let us resolve that we will go forward together, and we will do all we can to lead the world against this threat that threatens people everywhere. Thank you all. [applause] QUESTION: Thank you so much, Madam Secretary, and thanks to Richard Haass again, for organizing this extraordinary opportunity. In the week of the Paris attacks, President Obama said that he thought what was needed now was an intensification of his existing strategy against ISIS. Is what you're proposing an intensification of the existing strategy, or a change to it? CLINTON: Well, as I said in the speech, it is, in many ways, an intensification, an acceleration of the strategy. But it has to also intensify and accelerate our efforts in the other arenas. What we have done with airstrikes has made a difference, but now it needs to make a greater difference and we need more of a coalition, you know, flying those missions with us. What we have done, with the president saying there would be special forces sent, it is right in line with what I think that they need to get there, and we need to take stock of whether we need more, and we need to also empower our trainers in Iraq to have more support to do what they're trying to accomplish by getting the Iraqi Army, once again, to be a fighting force. And we need—one thing that I believe we haven't done yet is make it clear to Baghdad that we are going to be arming Sunni tribes and Kurds if they don't, because at some point, they have to be in the fight. The Kurds, as you know, are fighting bravely on both sides of the border, and they need the support that we've given them and some of the special ops work, and the assault and taking back of Sinjar. And then, these other two elements that I mentioned. We have pieces in place, but I think we have to deepen and better coordinate, not only within our own country in Europe, but more broadly. QUESTION: Do you believe that President Obama underestimated ISIS when he called it the J.V. team? CLINTON: Look, I don't think it's useful to go back in and replow old ground. I think that, from the perspective of what they had accomplished at that time, even though they had seized and held territory, the major focus of our government was on trying to remove Assad from power, so that there could be a resolution, a political resolution. And there were so many groups fighting. There were so many other factors at work. Now that ISIS has made clear that I think in part because they have been pushed hard by the airstrikes, by the Kurds, they're now expanding their reach so that they can keep their propaganda going. So I think there's been, you know, an evolution in their threat and we have to meet it. QUESTION: A couple of days ago, the New York Times had a headline that said, "Paris Attacks Complicate Hillary Clinton's Alignment With Obama." Has it? CLINTON: Well, it's not the first headline I've disagreed with. [laughter] Look, I—I have made clear that I have differences, as I think any two people do. I was very proud to serve as President Obama's secretary of state. I think we made a good team. We largely agreed on what needed to be done to repair our alliances, to get our country in a position to deal with the wars that had been inherited, and to take on some of the new challenges we faced. But even when I was still there, which is publicly known, I thought we needed to do more earlier to try to identify indigenous Syrian fighters, so-called "moderates"—and I do think there were some early on—that we could have done more to help them in their fight against Assad. But, you know, this is an evolving and fast-moving situation. I think we're all, you know, working to, you know, make sure that what we do actually will produce the results we seek. QUESTION: When you were secretary of state, you tended to agree a great deal with the then-Secretary of Defense Bob Gates. Gates was opposed to a no-fly zone in Syria; thought it was an act of war that was risky and dangerous. This seems to me the major difference right now between what the president—what Obama's administration is doing and what you're proposing. Do you not—why do you disagree with Bob Gates on this? CLINTON: Well, I—I believe that the no-fly zone is merited and can be implemented, again, in a coalition, not an American-only no-fly zone. I fully respect Bob and his knowledge about the difficulties of implementing a no-fly zone. But if you look at where we are right now, we have to try to clear the air of the bombing attacks that are still being carried out to a limited extent by the Syrian military, now supplemented by the Russian air force. And I think we have a chance to do that now. We have a no-fly zone over northern Iraq for years to protect the Kurds. And it proved to be successful, not easy—it never is—but I think now is the time for us to revisit those plans. I also believe, as I said in the speech, that if we begin the conversation about a no-fly zone, something that, you know, Turkey discussed with me back when I was secretary of state in 2012, it will confront a lot of our partners in the region and beyond about what they're going to do. And it can give us leverage in the discussions that Secretary Kerry is carrying on right now. So I see it as both a strategic opportunity on the ground, and an opportunity for leverage in the peace negotiations. QUESTION: You talked about Arab partners, but it's worth noting that after having announced with great fanfare that they would join us in the strikes, Saudi Arabia has essentially dropped out. The UAE has essentially dropped out. What would you—what could—can you do particularly to make these key Sunni states that seem more interested in fighting in Yemen, where they are battling a Shiite force, as they see it? What can you do to make them actually take this on as their struggle? CLINTON: Well, that's—we did build that coalition with respect to Libya. We had the UAE, Qatar, Jordan involved in what we were doing on the ground, and it takes constant outreach and, obviously, you have to define the problem in a way that they see it as affecting their national interests. And you're right, the Saudis were actually involved in Syria and now have put all of their resources against the Houthis and the Iranian backers of the Houthis in Yemen. Now, what does that mean? Well, it means that they see the battle that they want to fight as one against Iran and its proxies. My argument to them would be, left unattended, you could have Iranian reach from Tehran to Baghdad. If you allow Syria to fall into as terrible a distress as it currently is and basically Assad being a proxy for, a frontman for the Iranians, the Russians are interested in their naval base. And so you will find a consolidation of authority with the Iranians and moving into Baghdad even more so. So what you're facing in Yemen could be a limited preview of what you could face going forward, unless we get some concerted effort to stop the fighting and to seek a political solution that does give some room to all the different groups within Syria to have a say in the future. QUESTION: Donald Trump says that if you look back, you see that every time—I get a laugh just saying it...[laughter]... Donald Trump says that every time we deposed or encouraged the removal of a dictator in the Middle East, what has followed has been political chaos and a worse humanitarian situation than existed before. And if you look at Iraq, if you look at Libya, if you look Yemen, you look at the fragility of the Assad regime and what it has produced, isn't he right? CLINTON: Well, he has a very short-term view of history, because it is not at all clear what the final outcome will be in the places that you named. As I mentioned in the speech, I spoke about the foundations of the region sinking into the sand just as the Arab Spring was breaking. And I did so not knowing about the Arab Spring coming to full bloom, but because it was so clear that what was being done by dictatorships, by the denial of opportunity, by the repression, by the sectarian divide just could not stand. It was going to explode at some point or another. And with the developments in Libya, for example, the Libyan people have voted twice in free and fair elections for the kind of leadership they want. They have not been able to figure out how to prevent the disruptions that they are confronted with because of internal divides and because of some of the external pressures that are coming from terrorist groups and others. So it's—I think it's too soon to tell and I think it's something that we have to be, you know, looking at very closely. Now, deposing Milosevic left problems, but problems that we came at by having a deal—in fact, my husband's in Dayton today speaking about the Dayton Accord where people who had been slaughtering each other had to come together and resolve to exist within a government together. Is it perfect? No, but has it, you know, kind of going, and do we have some work to do there? Absolutely. So, we have to look at all these different situations, I think, on their own as well as part of bigger trends. QUESTION: Several of the people running against you against—against whoever the Democrat is, argue that—argue that we should not be taking in Syrian refugees, but we do, we should prioritize Christian refugees. Jeb Bush has said this, Ted Cruz has said this. And the argument is that they are being persecuted, particularly harshly by ISIS. Why isn't that right? CLINTON: Well, I just don't think we should have religious tests about who we bring as refugees into our country. We've had—last I looked, more than 2 million refugees since 1990. So far, we know that trying to do vet and understand the connections that a person or a family might have with somebody in the United States, you know, looking to see what organization, often a faith-based organization, will sponsor them and what they'll do to help them get education or a job, is by far the best way to sort out and to determine who should be included. Now, this is going to take a long time, I mean, really doing this is hard under any circumstances. Doing it when people are essentially stateless, they don't necessarily have documents, it's hard to do the vetting, is going to be challenging. Which is, again, why I said in the speech that Congress should be providing resources for us to do it right, you know, not trying to stop it. I just don't believe that's in keeping with our values or our history, and frankly it doesn't send the kind of message that we want to send to the rest of the world. So, yeah, we have to be careful, we have to be vigilant and we have to have a system that does all of that. QUESTION: Let's open it up to members of the Council. Let me—if somebody wants to put up their hand, identify themselves, and please make sure it is a question, with a question mark at the end, and it be brief. So. QUESTION: Thank you very much for your comments. With respect to TPP, I would like to understand a little bit better why you oppose it, and what changes would perhaps make it acceptable to you? CLINTON: I think—you know, there are two problems that I see with it. One the final language of the treaty itself, which I don't think went far enough to meet the test that I've always applied to any trade agreement—I have voted for them and I have voted against them when I was a senator—does it help to create more good paying jobs in America? Does it raise incomes, does it advance our national security? And I think there are enough unanswered questions. It was an—it was an extraordinary effort to try to bring these countries together to come up with an agreement, but I think that at the end of the day, for a number of reasons, including that they couldn't figure how to get currency into the agreement and it's only in a side agreement, I opposed it. The other side of the coin, though, is we have been doing so little—because of Republican opposition, mostly, to better train and prepare people who have been, really, either sidelined or whacked up in—against their head by globalization. Globalization is real, it's happening, it's having an impact. We don't have a good training program, we don't have the kind of support that people need to be able to move into positions where they can acquire new skills. And I see those two things as going together because we have to first and foremost focus on how we better prepare more Americans to be competitive in the global economy, and I don't think we've done that. I want to see that done alongside any trade agreement to a greater extent than the Republicans have been willing to support it. MODERATOR: Ma'am? QUESTION: Madam Secretary, Amy Bondurant. So importantly, you've recommended that the U.S. lead the air coalition, and I wondered what next steps might be taken to ensure that that would happen. CLINTON: Well Amy, there's nothing magic or easy about putting together such a coalition. I know President Hollande will be coming to the United States to see President Obama this week, and I assume that there will be a group of French officials, defense officials, intelligence officials, homeland security officials who will be meeting with their American counterparts. And on the defense side, I think that certainly the United States working with France and then from that, you know, sort of hub beginning to reach out to other countries to seek out support. And I would go back to Arab countries as well. So looking for a way to begin the discussions about the negotiations that lead to the coalition as quickly as possible. You know, going back to Libya, you know, the Europeans were the ones who wanted American support, and we did not agree to do so until we had a very clear idea what they were willing to do. And then we reached out and worked with the Arab League so that there would be Arab partners as well, and that took weeks. It wasn't something that just happened overnight. But it is definitely doable if we begin, I think, with the French-American position and move out from there. MODERATOR: [off-mike] QUESTION: Terry Whitney, Castle. My understanding was with regard to U.S. support for Syrian rebels over the last year or two, one of the main restraints was that they could not fight Assad directly and that this was a severe limitation and part of the reason the plan didn't work. When you recommend supporting additional training for Syrian rebel groups, would you advise them to allow them to fight Assad, or is that a part of the conflict that we don't want to get involved in? CLINTON: Well, back in the first term when Leon Panetta and Dave Petraeus and I made our recommendation about vetting and arming Syrian moderate rebels, the target was Assad, it was to defend themselves and be able to prevent the military taking over territory and creating the kind of humanitarian disaster that obviously we've all seen. So that was what we recommended back in the first term. Since then, I know it's been a very difficult task for the—our government to take on and pursue successfully, but one of the challenges has been trying to draw lines, and you draw lines because you want to be able to vet and follow what happens to the arms that you are equipping people with. But what happened to some of the few groups that have been trained is that they were quickly overrun by much more hardened fighters who were fighting Assad, so it was a—it was a very hard task to do, two or three years later. I think it might have been, but again, I have said many times, I can't predict sitting here what would have happened if we moved earlier. It might have worked, it might not have worked. But you can't really take Syrians who are rebelling against Assad, and tell them they can't use their training and their weapons against the person who, as I said my speech, has killed far more Syrians than ISIS has to date. QUESTION: Let me ask a follow-up on that, Madam Secretary, if the only way you can put together a moderate Syrian force is by having the United States cajole, bribe, arm and train it, we are then looking for this force to defeat ISIS, then defeat Assad, then defeat al-Nusra, then defeat other Al Qaida affiliates, keep at bay the Shiite militias and Hezbollah, take control of Damascus and establish a pluralistic democracy in Syria. Isn't that kind of a tall order? [laughter] CLINTON: Well, certainly, described like that. And that's why I focused on ISIS. I mean, because I think it's—I think right now, we have one overriding goal. As I outlined, we need to crush their territorial domain, and we need to try to secure the entire border between Syria and Turkey. There is not going to be a successful military effort at this point to overturn Assad. That can only happen to the political process, so our efforts should be focused on ISIS, and yes, there are other terrorist groups, al-Nusra, whom you mentioned, is that particularly lethal fighter. QUESTION: So, no fight against Assad for now? CLINTON: There—we have to prioritize, and we had an opportunity, perhaps, I won't say that it would've worked. But right now, we've got the Russians in protecting Assad, the Iranians and Hezbollah protecting Assad. We need to get people to turn against the common enemy of ISIS, and then we need to figure out how we put together a political outcome that provides enough autonomy, so that the separate communities within Syria will be able to re-create a Syrian state, even though it probably is unlikely it will be controlled by the Alawites from Damascus the same way it was before the civil war started. QUESTION: There is policy here, but there is also politics. There are, inescapably, people trying to appear tough and tougher. If there were, God forbid, another terrorist attack, God forbid, in the United States, do you think the pressure to send American troops into Syria would be unstoppable? CLINTON: Well, it would certainly grow, but I think it would be a mistake. Look, as I said, we should be sending more special operators, we should be empowering our trainers in Iraq, we should be, you know, leading an air coalition, using both fighter planes and drones. We have a lot of work to do to be able to really decimate ISIS in Iraq and in Syria. But we've got to work with the Kurds on both sides of the border, we have got to figure out how to, if possible, have a second Arab Awakening in Anbar Province, get the Sunni tribes to feel that it is their fight again, as they once did. And that requires a lot of political pressure being put on Baghdad. Injecting some large contingent of American forces complicates that, in my opinion. Right now, we need to keep the pressure on the people on the ground, and get them to change their priorities and work together.MODERATOR: Final question. QUESTION: Jim Ziren , Madam Secretary. Hi. Back to the no-fly zone. are you advocating a no-fly zone over the entire country or a partial no-fly zone over an enclave where refugees might find a safe haven? And in the event of either, do you foresee see you might be potentially provoking the Russians? CLINTON: I am advocating the second, a no-fly zone principally over northern Syria close to the Turkish border, cutting off the supply lines, trying to provide some safe refuges for refugees so they don't have to leave Syria, creating a safe space away from the barrel bombs and the other bombardments by the Syrians. And I would certainly expect to and hope to work with the Russians to be able to do that. You know, the Russians have, as you know, then I primarily focused on Assad's enemies and not on ISIS. I think that has changed, and there is an indication that has changed. After Hollande comes here, he's going to go to Moscow to see Putin, and I—and as I said earlier, I think getting Russia to play a role in that and getting Assad to understand that what happens to him will be a result of a political resolution, which Secretary Kerry is undertaking right now, but to have a swath of territory that could be a safe zone both for Syrians so they wouldn't have to leave but also for humanitarian relief. And I think that it would give us this extra leverage that I'm looking for in the diplomatic pursuits with Russia with respect to the political outcome in Syria. MODERATOR: We can take one last brief question. Ma'am? QUESTION: Thank you. (Inaudible.) My question relates to Saudi Arabia. Do you think that the goals that you outlined in the Middle East can be achieved without more cooperation from Saudi Arabia? And if not, how do you think [inaudible] can be convinced to change course? CLINTON: Well, I think that that the Saudis are critical to achieving the goals, and, you know, the Saudis are now engaged in the discussions that Secretary Kerry is leading, they're in the same process as the Iranians, which is something that was hard to get to but finally achieved. And I think that the Saudis have a multiple level of responsibilities, first and foremost, stopping their own citizens from continuing the financing for extremists. And, you know, Saudi financing is still a major source of revenue for terrorist groups inside Syria, inside Iraq elsewhere. MODERATOR: Including—including ISIS, you think? CLINTON: I have no evidence of that, but there—ISIS has become quite a self-financing terrorist network with their theft of oil, selling it on the black market with their destruction and seizure of antiquities, selling that on the black market, with their taking over Mosul and raiding the banks. They've got a source of funding, so I don't really know. But I know that the—that Saudi individuals have certainly funded other related terrorist groups over time and also exported a lot of Wahhabi radicalism by kicking out or sending out imams and teachers to set up schools and mosques to preach that particularly harsh brand of Islam. So the Saudis have a lot that they can do to both stop and then to help. And that's why I said, look, they are legitimately concerned about a takeover in Yemen that butts up against their border. And so, that is why they are expending a lot of money and a lot of military resources, trying to beat back the Houthis, trying to reestablish Hadian government. They have got a lot going on there. But I would hope to draw them into a broader reading of what's going on in the region. And you know, for a lot of people, the Sunni-Shia sectarian divide is one of the major reasons for what's happening there. It's understandable, but the Saudis need to have a broader view, and looking at Iran's influence inside Syria, their growing influence in Iraq as well as in Yemen, they need to understand they have to help us stabilize at least Northern Syria to start with, while trying to come up with some resolution of the Civil War. And I hope they will be more willing to be involved. MODERATOR: Madam Secretary, thank you so much for giving us your time. [applause] CLINTON: Thank you.
ROSE: She is a former first lady, a former senator from New York and a former United States secretary of state. Now Hillary Clinton is running for president. The Democratic frontrunner sat down with me for a wide-ranging conversation at the Hay Adams Hotel in Washington, D.C. She talked about her plans to fight ISIS and remove Syria's Bashar al-Assad, the challenges of dealing with Russia, with China and with the problem of climate change and this—the role of the United States in a rapidly changing world. From a balcony overlooking the White House, she told me how she hoped fix the dysfunction in Washington and what being president is all about. ROSE: There is the seat of power in America, the White House—Pennsylvania Avenue down the road. They seem to be in conflict. There seems to be gridlock. Can Hillary Clinton make a difference? Because Barack Obama thought he could. CLINTON: Right. Right. ROSE: And he didn't. CLINTON: Well—ROSE: I know. It's not personal with him. CLINTON: Yes. Right no because—ROSE: Because it takes two to tango. CLINTON: He got a lot done, too, despite. Look—ROSE: How is he going to do it, though? People want to say to you, how can you stop this conflict? CLINTON: I'm going to get up every day and work at it. ROSE: That's not enough. CLINTON: No, it is true. ROSE: It's not enough. CLINTON: It starts with that—Charlie. ROSE: OK. CLINTON: It starts with that and it starts with once again, sort of nurturing relationships. You know, when I was first lady, when I was a senator and when I was secretary of state, I worked across the aisle all the time and sometimes there was only one thing that I could find to work with somebody on because everything else we were at odds over. ROSE: So you say to those Republicans and you say to the new Speaker of the House—CLINTON: Right. ROSE:?—Hillary Clinton will be somebody you can deal with? CLINTON: 100 percent. ROSE: I'm prepared to reach out to you, I'll be down there. CLINTON: Yes. Right. And I will do anything to find common ground but I will also stand my ground. There are some things that are not good for the country. I will not give in on those, but there is a lot of room here to find that common ground and we have to do it. ROSE: Yes. But you know a lot of people think the biggest problem for America is Washington. That's the problem. And that's partly reflected in some of the politics that we're seeing. CLINTON: Yes, that's true. But look at the way our founders set it up. They set up the separation of powers—ROSE: Three branches of government. CLINTON: And they made it really difficult to get things done, and some years it's really hard, and we're in one of these periods where we have a minority within the other party that doesn't believe in compromise, doesn't believe in reaching consensus—ROSE: But there you go attacking them. That's not the way to do it. CLINTON: No, no. No—because part of what you have to do is make it clear to everyone else who is in that party that there is room for negotiation. And those who do not even believe in the legislative process because they think that they arrived with all the answers and there is nothing that they can learn, maybe there is some ground. I worked with Tom DeLay for heaven's sakes on reforming the adoption and foster care system because even though he and I were politically opposites, he cared a lot about foster kids and he and his wife had taken them in. I knew that. I cared about them. So we found that common ground. That is just a 24/7 effort and I will put whatever it takes into doing it. ROSE: Waiting for the plane to come down from New York, a very nice lady said to me, where are you going? I said, I'm going to talk to Hillary Clinton. She said ask her this one question for me. What can I do to make a difference? That was what she said. CLINTON: That's a great question. ROSE: And you must be finding that as you go. CLINTON: I do. ROSE: I would think running for president, and you've done this before. As tough as it is, as sleepless as it is, you get a sense to touch base with the width and breadth of this country. And you get a sense from young to old, you know, how they aspire for a better life. CLINTON: Right. And, you know, there is something so intimate and personal about the encounters you have when you're running for office. I did when I was running for the Senate. I do now running for president. Sometimes just 30, 60 seconds people will look into your eyes and they'll say, "I need help", you know. "My son is a drug addict and I'm taking care of his daughter, we have to have more help.' Or the young man I meet who says "I'm taking care of my mother with Alzheimer's. I can't quit my job but I can't afford a caregiver so I take her to work." And I hear these intimate, personal stories. And it gives, you know, not only real texture to what I'm thinking about and what I'm proposing, but it makes it all real, you know, that there are real people out there doing the best they can. And what can she do? Well, maybe there is somebody she can help, you know. Maybe there is a child she can tutor. Maybe there's a project to raise funds to send kids to college. Maybe there is just something she can do to contribute to the life that will be better for somebody else. I say in my speeches, and I know it sometimes sounds a little corny, I say, you know, you don't expect the presidential candidate to say we need more love and kindness in America, but I'm saying it because I believe it. We've got to stop demonizing each other. We've got to stop with all of the anger and the terrible sense of alienation and division that is stalking our country. We need to be kinder to one another. We need to put ourselves in each other's shoes and walk in them, if you can. So, yes, I mean being president is running the executive branch, doing foreign policy, working with the Congress, but it's also being a catalyst for people to feel that they can be their best selves and that we need them—ROSE: And we're in this together. CLINTON:?—and that's what I want to do. We're in this together. Absolutely. [ROSE: This was the first major interview Secretary Clinton has granted since the terror attacks in Paris. We began our conversation with that tragedy and with her strategy to defeat the terror group ISIS.] ROSE: Thank you for doing this. It's so great to see you. CLINTON: Great to see you. Thanks—Charlie. ROSE: This is the first conversation interview you've had since Paris. What's new? What did Paris change for all of us? CLINTON: I think it forced a conversation that is taking place not only in our country and in Europe but in many places across the world about what are the opportunities and the dangers in this very complex time that we're living in. and specifically with respect to ISIS I think it has really accelerated a discussion about thousand world is going to deal with not only ISIS—how to deny it territory—but also with the whole network radical Jihadism which has taken advantage of that arc of instability from North Africa to South Asia. And then I think finally how are we going to protect ourselves, our friends, our partners in a way that is in keeping with our openness, our values? And so I think it's really pushed all of these discussions that you have in the situation room, that you have in lots of places; but now it's pushed into the open and it's a matter of personal and political debate. ROSE: OK. So with respect to the new urgency, what should the United States do and what would you recommend we do? CLINTON: Well, I gave a speech about this. ROSE: You did it at the Council on Foreign Relations. CLINTON: Council on Foreign Relations because I think it's important that we look at it from a broader perspective. Number one, we have to deny them territory with a multi-pronged, multi-national effort, and the United States must lead that effort. ROSE: What does that mean—lead? CLINTON: Well, what it means is that we have to do the heavy lifting to get people to make the contributions that they have to make, whether it be aircraft to fly airstrikes against ISIS territory to go after leadership and economic infrastructure. Or putting together the troops on the ground, how we get more equipment and support to the Kurds who have been bearing the brunt of the fighting; how we do everything we can to get the Iraqis not only stand up their army but begin to work with the Sunni tribal leaders as was done successfully back in '07. ROSE: And what incentive would you offer to the Sunni leaders to get them engaged on the ground so with the addition of American airstrikes you might wage an effective campaign both in Iraq and Syria? CLINTON: Well nothing beats what was tried last time which was cash. Let's not turn our nose up at it. ROSE: That's General Petraeus. CLINTON: That's General Petraeus whom you recently talked with and was very straightforward and said, "Look, we basically paid the tribal sheiks in Anbar" and now we would probably continue that across the border into Syria to pull together a fighting force, and it works. And it worked, in part, because of revulsion against the predecessor, al Qaeda in Iraq, the treatment of everybody at their hands, but it also worked because they were promised that they would have the autonomy and authority to make a lot of decisions within Iraq on their own behalf. And unfortunately, Maliki and his views toward sectarianism slowly but surely undermined all of that. And now you've got the Sunni sheiks, the fighters on the sidelines or, even worse, some of them making common cause with ISIS. ROSE:?—which raises an interesting question. Did we lose influence with the Baghdad government because we didn't have any remaining troops there? Would that have made a difference in terms of the behavior so that the Sunnis would not be so turned off by Baghdad? CLINTON: Well, I certainly thought we should keep troops there. I advocated for that. The real problem was Maliki. He would not give us what's called a status of forces agreement that would provide the protections for American troops that we have to expect anywhere in the world. And despite our best efforts, despite trying to negotiate and bargain with him, other members of his government, even the parliament, we were not able to reach that agreement. And the prior administration, the Bush administration had set a date certain for us to withdraw. So in the absence of an agreement with Maliki, we had to withdraw. Now, that is what he wanted. I mean he made all kinds of promises to the administration which he did not fulfill. ROSE: Was the absence of American troops, did it help lead to the strengthening of ISIS? CLINTON: I wouldn't go that far. I think it was the collapse of the internal agreements. Our understanding was that we had help them build up a force that would respect Sunnis, that they would have a place in the Iraqi army, that there was going to be a national guard that would be created, that would, in effect, protect the Sunnis and give them some sense of, you know, autonomy, enabling them to protect themselves. And then, of course, the Kurds, with their ongoing arguments with Baghdad over oil distribution and autonomy. So what Maliki did, and he was the driving force, was to begin to purge the army of Sunni officers, begin to take a hard line against the Kurds and their desire for more autonomy. And so, I really place the blame, such as it can be placed, at Maliki's feet. ROSE: What should be the limits of our involvement? CLINTON: Well, I think we have to look at this from several different perspectives. Number one, if we are going to lead a multi-national coalition, we're going to still have to take the lead in the air. That is our highest and best use. And even with France picking up at airstrikes, we're still, you know, carrying out the vast majority of them. We also need to get those Special Forces that the President has authorized into the arena as soon as possible because they will be able to tell us what more is needed. And, in particular, how do we have better targeting on the ground. We want to go after the ISIS leadership, we want to go after their economic infrastructure—how do we really know what we're targeting? ROSE: But General Petraeus, as you mentioned the interview, said to me that we should be embedding at the battalion level and not just Special Forces. CLINTON: Well, we don't really have—I couldn't tell whether he was meaning the Iraqi army, if we ever get it stood up again. That's something we could look at. We have over 3,000 American troops in Iraq trying to do just that, working to essentially undo the damage that Maliki did to the army, try to return it to what it was when American troops left. And I think that, you know, their main missions are train, assist and enable and if, down the road, it appears that we do get them up and willing to take the fight to Mosul and Ramadi and the areas that have to be taken back from ISIS inside Iraq, then there will be a role for Americans to perhaps be a part of advising those army units. We're a long way from that. We don't—and from what I'm told—even yet have confidence that we could put them back into the fight. And at the same time, let's not forget what we were talking about earlier. We need to be building up a Sunni force, and that will have to operate on a parallel track to the army. ROSE: But many people say we have been talking about this for a while, how do we get the Sunnis involved. There is a new urgency now—CLINTON: Right. ROSE:?—and a new emergency now. CLINTON: Right. ROSE: I mean tell me how serious the threat of ISIS is and at what level do we decide we'll do anything we have to do to stop them? CLINTON: I think we have to have as our objective their defeat, so what is it you have to do to defeat them? And I think you have to fight them in the air, you have to fight them on the ground and you have to fight them in cyberspace. Now it seems to me there are people both currently serving and retired like General Petraeus who know a lot of the players. And we should be utilizing anyone who has that kind of personal contact because it's all relationship based. We need people to go over there and look into the eyes of some of those tribal sheiks who will say you betrayed us, and we'll say, no, we didn't. When we left we had promises about continuing to pay the Sunni troops and continuing to have an integrated army. And we had promises. They were systematically broken. So let's do this again right. You stood against al Qaeda in Iraq because you saw the damage they were doing to your way of life, to your people—the oppressive, violent approach that they took. Now you're facing an even more barbaric enemy which has more money and now controls territory. We need to get back in the game and we need to help you do that. ROSE: Do we need to make coalition with Russia to do this? CLINTON: Well, I think we need, first of all, to build a coalition of Europeans and Arab states. We have to work with—ROSE: Don't we have that now? CLINTON: Well, we have it, but I would say—ROSE: And don't we see more participation by the British in terms of proposals to their parliament and the French are clearly energized. CLINTON: Well, the French are energized. The Brits are still waiting to see whether they can be. We do have a number of our European allies who are flying sorties. The Arabs have kind of pulled back and we need to get them reengaged. But with respect to Russia, I am not yet sure what exactly Putin's objectives are. We know that he has been bombing a lot of the opposition to Assad. We have to operate on two tracks at one time in a lot of what we're doing, as I just was saying in another regard. When it comes to Russia, they have to understand that we are going to go forward with our multi-national, multi-pronged approach. I still believe a no-fly zone is important to try to provide some safe haven on the ground, taking back the Syrian-Turkish border is going to require Turkish help. It's going to require the Russians to be at least respectful of our efforts. So we need to be engaged. We are engaged on a military to military—ROSE: There is some communication between—CLINTON: Absolutely. ROSE:?—the defense minister and the secretary of defense. CLINTON: Yes. And we have de-conflicted the airspace that we both are in, so we are not making the mistakes. But what they did invading whether intentionally or unintentionally Turkish airspace after having been warned repeatedly by the Turks—ROSE: So what do you think? CLINTON: Well, what I think is that they did. ROSE: They invaded on purpose? CLINTON: Well, no, I don't know—I said intentionally or unintentionally. But they were on notice to stay back. You know it's not—you can make a mistake, but they got so close that a mistake was possible or they just didn't care. ROSE: so why did they do that? What is Putin trying to say to the world? CLINTON: Yes, well, I think this probably was not something that came down from the Kremlin. You know, they want to go after those forces that are threatening Assad, some of whom are near the Turkish border. But by invading the airspace—and this is not the first time that they came close to doing it. NATO has issued a warning, the Turks have issued warnings. It showed a disregard for the perspective of others, most particularly the Turks, that it's troubling. Now, I think they have been pushed back, and I think that we'll be able to have a more realistic conversation with them, which I would urge. ROSE: But isn't Putin's interest pretty clear? He wants to be relevant. He wants to be a player. He wants to be part of the decision-making that takes place about Syria and he wants to say to the world Russia is important in the Middle East again—CLINTON: Right. ROSE:?—and he's accomplished that. CLINTON: Well, he has certainly staked a claim to it. But whether he's accomplished or not is not clear. Because here's what also what has to happen—another one of these dual tracks there, Charlie. We need to get over the false choice between either going after Assad or going after ISIS. ROSE: Yes. Help us understand that because everybody is talking about that. CLINTON: Yes. ROSE: How do you do both? Well, I think you do both by making it clear and bringing the Russians in. You know, The Russians have now paid a big price because of the bomb in their jet coming from Sharm el-Sheikh. So they've lost people to ISIS—right. I think you say, look, we need, your if not your active help, your acquiescence in what we're going to do going after ISIS. So that means you're going to have to pull back from this area while we go after their leadership and their economic infrastructure. But if you want to be part of that, we would welcome you. You have a dog in this hunt now because you're worried about what's happening in the Caucasus. You're worried about ISIS spreading its ideology. At the same time we have to accelerate the political and diplomatic efforts and this is what Secretary Kerry is trying to do—in Vienna and everywhere. CLINTON:?—in Vienna and everywhere and there has to be more willingness on the part of Russia and Iran to take a hard look at how we prioritize. Right now we're not going to see a military defeat of Assad. That's not going to happen. It might have been possible a few years ago. It's not going to happen now. You're going to continue to see Russia from the air, Iran from the ground where Iranian soldiers are dying on behalf of Assad. You're going to see them continue to try to hold the territory they have and push back against the opposition. So part of what we have to do is say, look, you've got to help us get to a political and diplomatic solution and you've got to either get out of the way or come on board with respect to ISIS, and we have to be very clear about that. And this should be a full-throated effort. ROSE: And you have to convince Assad, who's your client almost, that your time is limited. CLINTON: And that there will be a transition. ROSE: Right. CLINTON: Now, knowing the Russians and the Iranians who have a lot invested in Assad, this is a long process. It's not going to won't happen overnight. But if they will in their own mind, say quit bombing the people who are helping us fight ISIS, go ahead and put a cordon around the area that Assad still controls, protect him there while we do the diplomatic and political work. ROSE: Someone people would like to ask you this question. I mean we had the 3:00 phone call during a previous campaign—what would you do. And so the question becomes, if there is a no-fly zone, which you're advocating, and the Russians invade that no-fly zone, would President Clinton say shoot it down if you give it warning? CLINTON: Charlie—that would not happen because we're going to put up a no-fly zone where the Russians are clearly kept informed. I want them at the table. They don't have to participate in it but I want them to understand that there have to be safe areas on the ground. If we can stop hundreds of thousands of more Syrians leaving Syria because they get to a place where they can get medical aid and food and the like, that's good for Russia. Why does Russia want this incredible burden that is going to be coming up through Europe and, yes, maybe they are happy to see Europe suffering like this but, in the end, it makes no sense for them and makes no sense for all of us. And so I think you've got to have that conversation. Look, it's never easy with the Russians and particularly hard with Putin, but if you say, as I think you should and as I think the conversation needs to get to an operational level. And then, at the same time, a conversation with Putin about what our options truly are, I think you can say to him, we're going to put up this no fly zone. You will know very well where it is because it's going to be the same people who are working now to de-conflict airspace—ROSE: Yes. CLINTON: The same Americans you're dealing with on a mill to mill level but we have got to figure out how to keep more Syrians in Syria and frankly it's good for the fight against ISIS if we've got population that then can be a locus for that. ROSE: A no-fly zone is one way—one place where you and the President disagree on policy with respect to Syria. CLINTON: Right. ROSE: Are there others in which there is a difference? We saw what you said at the Council on Foreign Relations. We saw the interview he did in Turkey. You seemed to be similarly responding to what the situation is. Where else do you differ in addition to no-fly zones? CLINTON: Well, look, I think the President has said that perhaps we should have taken some additional steps earlier. But the real question is—ROSE: That goes back to the point when you and Petraeus and others were recommending more in 2011. CLINTON: Right, yes. But now the important issue is what do we do now? And I think I'm arguing for perhaps a greater, quicker intensification of the work that I think needs to be done. I agree with the President's point that we're not putting American combat troops back into Syria or Iraq. We are not going to do that. ROSE: Under no circumstances would you not do that? CLINTON: Well, at this point, I cannot conceive of any circumstances where I would agree to do that because I think the best way to defeat ISIS is, as I've said, from the air which we lead; on the ground which we enable, empower, train, equip; and in cyberspace where, don't forget, they are a formidable adversary online. So what I want to say is, look, we don't know yet how many Special Forces might be needed, how many trainers and surveillance and enablers might be needed, but in terms of thousands of combat troops like some on the Republican side are recommending, I think that should be a non-starter. And it should be a non-starter both because I don't think it's the smartest way to go after ISIS. I think it gives ISIS a new recruitment tool if we get back in the fight. Whereas if we are equipping and supporting the Kurds, if we get the Sunni tribes back in the fight, then we can do a lot to make sure that works. ROSE: Let me take you to another time—Libya. You were a strong if not the strongest proponent of the U.S. and the French and others going to protect Benghazi at a time that it faced almost certain attack by Gadhafi leading to, as he said, massacre in the streets. Was that a mistake when you look at what has happened since in Libya? CLINTON: First of all, it's important to remember that the Libyans themselves held two successful free and fair elections. You know how hard that is after conflict, after 42 years when every institution has been hollowed out? The Libyan people rose to the occasion. They voted for moderates. Then, unfortunately, there was a lot going on in the region that was not necessarily in the control of anybody but which had a big impact on Libya. ROSE: So I have two questions about that. First question is I think you were going to—I mean is there some lesson we need to learn and that may be applicable to Syria, don't get rid of a strong man until you have somebody that can come in there because you do not want chaos and you do not want the kind of circumstance in Libya because what you have in Libya now is an increasing force of ISIS. CLINTON: Well, in one part of Libya. Yes, let me address that because it's a totally fair question. Gadhafi had American blood on his hands. Gadhafi was a threat to the broader region. Our European and Arab friends certainly saw him as that and as you say he was promising to track down his own people and kill them like cockroaches. My point was that with his demise, there was a coalition that rose up. They did hold elections. They were prepared to begin forming a government and there was a lot of pressure coming at them from extremists in all directions. And some of the old attitudes like the split between Tripoli and Benghazi; between, you know, east and west began to assert themselves. I believe that right now there is an ongoing effort by the U.N. and others the U.S. is supporting to try to form a unity government, to try to get people once again to get back to working together. The problem, is we see advances by ISIS—they're not the only terrorist group—ROSE: Sure. CLINTON:?—but ISIS now claims that they have really taken control of Sirte, which happens to be Gadhafi's hometown. I think one of the ways we need to approach this is continue the discussions about national unity but, as a pre-condition, say we need to join together right now before they get a stronghold and work to eliminate ISIS in Sirte, and it is something that is going to require a lot of cooperation. There are armed groups that are fighting for power within Libya that are not in any way identified with or allied with ISIS. They need to form even a loose confederation to try to push ISIS literally into the sea before they get a stronghold. There are a lot of other bad actors, don't get me wrong, bad actors who have taken up—ROSE: But could this also be part of the way the President thinks about things now? I mean we go in with great intentions, we help participate in the Arab Spring. It was their revolt, not ours. And we end up with where it's not successful, democracy does not emerge and you end up with, in some cases, failed states or states that seem to be on the verge of becoming failed states. And, so, it's just not a place for America to be. CLINTON: Again, I think it's dangerous to make these sweeping generalizations. Look at how valiantly the Tunisians are struggling. ROSE: They're the big exception. CLINTON: They're the big exception because they're a relatively small country and they've worked really hard to get everybody under a tent, so to speak, and get them organized. Libya has pockets of functioning government, but they are not united, and it may well be very difficult to unite them because there has been historical rivalry between them. But we're talking about four years. You know we have a very quick time table—ROSE: I know. We didn't create democracy overnight. CLINTON: We did not, no. And nobody that I know relay has. That's not to say there is not dangers. And I do think if we could turn the clock back, if there had been a way, and we tried, to convince the Libyans to take more help, not just from Americans but from Europeans with whom they had preexisting relationships or even others that might have come to support them—the Scandinavians, for example—help them do more. They were so proud and they were so resistant to having security forces on their territory. They were even resistant to having foreigners come and help them figure out how better to run their oil industry. They had a lot of really smart people who had been expats for decades, they came home and they wanted to do it themselves. If there had been a way that we could have better partnered with them, supported them, maybe it would have made a difference. But this is a long-term prospect that you have to be looking at. ROSE: Speak to this. I mean we're looking at a world that's changing rapidly. I mean you've got China soon to become the biggest economy in the world and whatever their ambitions are. You have the Middle East which is close to exploding in some cases, some would suggest you have the Russians involved, you've got others involved. How do we make our way in a sort of New World order and what is our role to do that? CLINTON: Well, I think our role is to lead. You know, the absence of American leadership is not somebody else's leadership. ROSE: But they say—let me interrupt -- CLINTON: Nothing. ROSE: OK. But some argue that there has been a vacuum—that America has not been leading. CLINTON: Well, then we should get about the business of leading. If that is a perception, we need to rid the perception. ROSE: Who knows better than that than you? I mean there is a perception that we were not prepared to lead. CLINTON: Well, look, I think it is a very—ROSE: And a vacuum was created. CLINTON: Well, I think it's a very complex set of circumstances, and it's important to look short-term, medium-term, long-term, right? I remember in some of the arguments I had in the White House over Mubarak. And you know, there was a lot of excitement about Mubarak falling. I was one of the skeptics, right, because what was going to replace him? Yes, had he been a heavy-handed authoritarian? He had. But what was the alternative? And I remember saying, you know, this may look great in 25 years, but between now and then, there is a lot of trouble for the Egyptians, the region and us. And so I think you have to be constantly balancing what is the best decision you can make today, how do you think about what comes next, what are the consequences you're either trying to promote or prevent, and then what are the long-term challenges and how do we get prepared for those? I mean it sounds easy to say. It's very difficult to do. And I think, look, when I became Secretary of State, Osama bin laden was alive and with his lieutenants plotting against us. Iran was on a fast track to a nuclear weapon. We had hundreds of thousands of American troops in the battlefields of Iraq and Afghanistan and our alliances were incredibly frayed, Charlie. You know, it's important to remember that, in 2009, our big challenges were seemingly as difficult as the ones we're talking about now. So all these years later—ROSE: Compounded by economic problems. CLINTON:?—compounded by a terrible great recession that could have become a great depression. And so we worked our way out of that. I don't think President Obama gets the credit he deserves for literally saving the economy from a much worse fate. Bin laden is dead. Al Qaeda is still alive. It's on, you know, maybe life support, but it's still alive. It's still kicking. It still is inspirational. We have to keep our eye on it. We can't just focus on ISIS. We have to be aware of al Qaeda's continue maneuvering. We did reach an agreement that put a lid on Iran's nuclear weapon program which could have led to a conflagration in the Persian Gulf. Not maybe started by us but in which we might very well have—ROSE: OK, but that did not speak to Iranian behavior. CLINTON: No but—it wasn't meant to. ROSE: I understand that. I understood that. I am not suggesting it should have been. CLINTON: Yes, right. ROSE: I am suggesting that Iranian behavior is going to be an issue for the next president. CLINTON: Absolutely. And I've been saying this—again, I gave a big speech about what I will do as president and to deal with enforcing the agreement, because there are a lot of important details, and the Iranians have to know right from the beginning that they will pay a price, that there will be consequences for any misbehavior or breaches. And that we have to now turn our attention to dealing with their other bad behavior—still exporting terrorism, destabilizing other regimes. So, yes, there is a bucket of problems that we have to deal with that the Iranians are posing. ROSE: But how do we deal with those problems because they are part of—CLINTON: Charlie, I would rather deal with those with the nuclear program. ROSE: I'm not arguing about the nuclear—CLINTON: No, but this is a big deal because what the nuclear program literally under lid, so to speak—ROSE: Right. CLINTON: Now, it's not so, you know, important that we stay as focused. We have to enforce the agreement but we're not spending all our time and effort dealing with their nuclear program which they really got under fast track when Bush was president and we had to deal with it. Now we have to look at all their other bad behavior and we have to have the same kind of patient, strategic planning that went in to the agreement. You know, I started putting together the coalition to impose the sanctions within the first month of being in the secretary of state's office. It takes time. I had to convince the Russians and the Chinese. I had to convince the Europeans, especially the southern Europeans to give up oil and gas from Iran. This was a long struggle, basically, but it was diplomacy that was day by day which reached results. Now we've got to take a look and say, OK, what is it we have to do? Well, clearly, we've got to keep forces in the Persian Gulf. We've got to do a better job dealing with our Gulf partners who I think are very short-sighted in failing to cooperate with one another, to deal with some of the threats. ROSE: Yes, but I mean for many of our gulf partners, Iran is the biggest enemy there is. I mean it's part of the Sunni-Shia split in the region. CLINTON: Of course it is. Of course it is. ROSE: And that's why they want to get rid of Assad who is supported by the Iranians as you know. CLINTON: And he's an Alawites which is, you know, an off shoot of Shiism. Yes, we get all of that. But the good news out of the Iran agreement, as far as we know, they are not pursuing their own nuclear weapons right now. And that was a very real threat. They understood that the agreement was better than they thought it would be, so they, too, can turn their attention to the rest of this bad behavior because what our big fear was, not only that we'd get a war over trying to prevent Iran from going forward with this program even if it was only two or three years, but that we would see a wicked race to proliferation in the Gulf. ROSE: And this deal should stop that? CLINTON: At least for the years that it's in effect, as long as we enforce it. ROSE: This conversation part is about American leadership. CLINTON: Right. ROSE: You suggested over the weekend I think that America should lead at the climate conference in Paris. CLINTON: Yes. ROSE: How should America lead there and what are your expectations? CLINTON: Well, I give kudos to the President. I think given the hand he was dealt by this congress and the difficulty in trying to come up with a credible plan to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in our own country, he has played that hand very well. I mean a lot of the EPA moves, a lot of the Department of Transportation on greater mileage from cars and trucks and vehicles, I think he goes to Paris in a strong position to be able to say, look, we all have to come and agree. ROSE: Right. CLINTON: He also comes with a commitment for the United States to do more on innovation and moving more quickly toward clean energy, and he comes with the great philanthropic commitment of Bill Gates. ROSE: Do you think he'll be successful? Yes, $100 million. CLINTON: Yes, yes. ROSE: You think so. You think we'll find some progress because there is a sense of almost the urgency that we are talking about with respect to the Middle East? CLINTON: Well, in many ways, Charlie, I mean the Middle East is a terrible, complex human problem. And it drives you crazy because you keep saying to yourself, if these people would only stop this, they could build economies, they could have so much to contribute to the world. So you rack your brain about this. Climate change is such a consequential crisis to everybody in the world. And it is a great shame to the entire human race, but particularly to the advanced economies such as ours, that we haven't made common cause to try to reverse or at least stabilize the temperature increase. And I'm really hoping that we get a good result out of Paris, and I think what the Chinese have done is really smart. You know, when President Obama and I crashed into their meeting in '09 in Copenhagen, they were not happy to see us. ROSE: Where are the Chinese?? Where are the Chinese? CLINTON: Yes. But they did agree to begin voluntary recording and accountability. Now they've come with I think a 900-page report and they've said look, we have a lot of work to do, because they can't breathe the air, their water is polluted. Their land is polluted. They have said, OK, we're going to deal with this. But you know what the real trick here is? They're going to be the clean energy superpower of the 21st century. ROSE: Unless? CLINTON: Unless we get there first or unless we are partners. ROSE: It takes money as well does it not? CLINTON: It takes money but they're going to—they're going to make big investments—ROSE: Innovation and creativity. CLINTON:?—in solar, in wind, and everything else. And then they're going to be exporting and they're going to be controlling that market unless we understand there is a huge economic opportunity that goes hand in hand with climate change. ROSE: Let me ask you about trade, too. CLINTON: Yes. ROSE: I mean how important—we have a vote coming up in Congress. CLINTON: Right. ROSE: Would you encourage—I mean trade is an important aspect. You were very strongly in favor of the trade agreement. CLINTON: Well, I was in favor of the high hopes and standards for it. Right. ROSE: That's fair enough. You understand the importance of trade. CLINTON: Yes, of course I do. We're 5 percent of the world's population. If we're going to grow, we have to sell to the other 95 percent. I absolutely understand that. But here are two problems. One, I've had the same criteria for judging trade agreements for years. I voted for some and I voted against a big multi-national one when I was in the senate. ROSE: But you were really in favor of this one? CLINTON: No. It hadn't even been negotiated. ROSE: That's the impression though as you know. CLINTON: Well, I can't help what impressions are. What I said from the beginning is it has to produce more good paying jobs for Americans. It has to raise Americans' wages and it has to be in furtherance of our national security. So when it came out, you know, none of us saw the details until it was actually produced some few months ago. In my opinion, it didn't meet those standards. And so I said I'm against it. Now, I'm not against all trade, but I am against certain provisions of this, including the failure to integrate currency manipulation into the enforceable body of the agreement. But there is another point I just want to quickly make which is, you know, the Republicans are always for every trade agreement. Trade if it's going to be successful for the American worker, the American business, has to be more than just special deals for giant multi-national corporations who have some linkage to America. And the Republicans have blocked every effort to raise the minimum wage, better training, apprenticeship programs, make education more affordable. They have blocked every effort to try to make sure American workers were as prepared as possible to compete and win in the global economy. So, for me, the trade agreement on the merits is not one I can support and the failure to kind of make the other side of the equation fair so that more Americans will get the skills they need to be able to compete, you know, just makes it a decision that I'm not ready to take now. ROSE: Would you encourage Democratic members of the Congress to vote against it? CLINTON: I have stated my position, you know. If anybody wants to talk to me, they're welcome to call me but I have stated my position and I will let the Congress work its will. ROSE: You announced a significant idea about infrastructure. CLINTON: Right. ROSE: Why has it taken this country so long to deal with infrastructure? What's the problem? CLINTON: Well, the problem Charlie is that the Republicans don't want to pay for anything. You know, when I was in the Senate, I was on the committee that was responsible for writing the bill, the Highway Transportation Bill. It was hard because we had a lot of back and forth, but we came out with a bill, we got it done. There has not been a bill that has actually come out for years now. And, so the congress is in the middle of arguing about whether or not they can get a highway bill. But they don't want anybody to pay anything for it. And so, they don't want to use user fees. They don't want any kind of fee that could be construed as a tax, OK.  [crosstalk] CLINTON: At some point, you know, we are crumbling. I mean every independent assessment says the same thing. We have a failing grade or maybe at the most a D-minus—ROSE: And putting our citizens at risk. CLINTON: Well, and costing the money. You know, in a lot of places in this country, people pay a lot to fix axles and wheels and other things that are damaged by potted and deteriorating roads. We have a lot of bridges that if you had a choice you wouldn't cross because they're not in good shape. Our airports—we don't have a single airport in the top 20 airports in the entire world. The closest we get is Cincinnati at 30. I mean we have watched over deterioration, to say nothing of what you can't see. Under the ground, you know, in New York we have water mains and sewer mains and gas lines—some of them are blowing up and some of them are cracking. ROSE: So did we miss an opportunity during the first four years of the Obama administration to do more? CLINTON: Well, we did as much as the Congress would let the administration do. The Recovery Act had "Build America" bonds. They had money going in to all kinds of construction. We could have done a lot more and we would be better off if we had. ROSE: This campaign is about middle class economic future. CLINTON: Right, right. ROSE: Do you recommend cutting middle class taxes? CLINTON: Well, not raising them, certainly. ROSE: No, but didn't you say you're in favor of cutting them? CLINTON: Well, I'm in favor of giving specific tax credits and breaks so that middle class families can meet some of their obligations. So for example, you know, more help on childcare, more help on care giving like taking care of an elderly relative with Alzheimer's. Making sure we keep tax credits for education. So in effect those are cutting taxes—not an across-the-board cut. They are tied to certain activities, you know, activities or services that middle class people need. ROSE: But do you also urge raising income taxes on wealthy individuals? CLINTON: On you and me? Yes. ROSE: Yes. You and I'm included. True CLINTON: Sorry. ROSE: And I'm willing. CLINTON: Yes. No, really. I mean it is—the tax system truly is stacked for those on the top, and it is something that breeds so much resentment and grievance on the part of small businesses, on the part of hard-working people and, you know, the wealthy pay too little and middle class people pay too much and we've got to get a better balance. We do need revenues. I'm not somebody who says we don't. I just want to start with the people who actually can contribute more and make the tax system fair in the process. ROSE: And what about corporate tax? CLINTON: We're going to have to take a hard look at it because right now we have a very high rate but the effective rate hardly ever reaches that. ROSE: I know. There is over 35 percent. At the same time, I think the average is about 18 or 20 percent. CLINTON: Yes. And some get away with nothing. ROSE: Yes. CLINTON: And so—look, I don't want to stifle American entrepreneurialism. I don't want to stifle American business, but I want to change the incentives. That's why when I rolled out my economic plans I said, look, I want strong growth, fair growth and long-term growth. And the long-term growth may be the most important piece. I'll tell you just a very quick story. There was a survey done where CEOs of major American corporations were asked this question. If you knew an investment you could make today would pay off down the road by investing in plant and equipment, research and experimentation or worker training, but it would knock a penny off your share price, would you do it? And to a person, they said, no, we can't, we can't do it. I actually called up someone we both know to say, seriously? Absolutely. It makes me sick to say was the response, but, no, we can't, we will get hammered, we will be putting a big target on our chest for the activist shareholders. We can't do it. Now, we must change those incentives. We need more patient capital. We need more investments at home. ROSE: How about payroll tax. CLINTON: Well, you know, the payroll taxes—ROSE: I don't know—what? CLINTON: I don't think it's that big a deal. ROSE: Is that right? CLINTON: No because, you know, President Obama suspended it, nobody even noticed because we have to fund social security. That's a different issue. ROSE: Wouldn't that put money in the pockets right away of the middle class? CLINTON: It did but it wasn't—it was not something that people really valued if you—from what I—ROSE: Politically or economically? CLINTON: Apparently both from the research that I've seen. ROSE: Speaking of corporations. Pfizer, Allergan—merger, move to Ireland, reduce your tax rate. CLINTON: Right. Right. ROSE: They say, meaning they will be able to have more money to spend because they're not paying big taxes to develop new drugs. They say it's in the interest of the public. CLINTON: I never know what to make of these kinds of comments. Personally, I was deeply distressed by the Pfizer decision. And I know, for instance, that drug companies spend more money on advertising than they do on research in our country. And so when they say, oh, we're going to be able to spend more money on research, I would love to know the numbers. I find that hard to buy. I think there is a certain gamesmanship associated with it which I find really regrettable, you know. It's, like, OK, if we can beat the system—and Ireland has had this big welcome sign, you know, we're going to go down as low as we can—ROSE: Right. CLINTON:?—I mean the rest of Europe is annoyed, the United States is annoyed, but I don't think inversions should be legal and I know that the Justice Department and Treasury Department have looked at those. I don't think they should be. ROSE: The President said they're unpatriotic. CLINTON: Well, they are. I mean truly, when you think about it, I mean Pfizer is a New York company. That's where its roots have been. And obviously, as time went by, it employed fewer people but it's always been an American flagship company. And for them to say, you know, this is just really a game—because if you listen to it, you know, how many executives are actually going to move to Dublin? No, they're going to move virtually. They're going to move, you know, the button you press on your computer to say this is where intellectual property now lives, you know, apparently in a castle outside of Dublin. ROSE: They're not going to pick up their factories and go—CLINTON: Well no. They don't have that many left and I'm sure they have a global reach on that. But it's really a kick in the teeth. I mean this country has done more to inspire this kind of innovation than any place in the world. ROSE: OK. But you have a lot of companies like Apple, for example, have a lot of money overseas. CLINTON: Right. ROSE: And they say, you know, make it more—give us some amnesty, do something, and we'll bring that money home. What would you say? CLINTON: We'll have to look at all of that. I mean yes. But let me tell you—we did repatriate when I was in the Senate, OK, under George W. Bush. We repatriated, they said the same thing to us. And I know I had a parade of people coming in—CEOs and CFOs saying we really need to do this and when we get the money back, we're going to do x, y, z. And what did they do? They bought back shares. They increased the dividends—ROSE: And stock price—stock prices were up. CLINTON:?—and they put more money into CEO pay and bonus. George W. Bush is on record as saying he would never have supported at the end because they all lied us to. So if we're going to do a repatriation, it's going to have to be rock solid and very clear about where that money goes and what it's used for. Now, I think we have to look at the entire corporate code. I don't want to preside over an exodus of American companies. I want people coming here to invest. I want people, you know, building the next generation of whatever it is—clean energy, technology, you name it. So I want to be a good president for business, but I also want to be a good president for everybody in America, not just for, you know, CEOs and activist shareholders. ROSE: Have you suffered from the fact that they say you're too close to Wall Street? Has that hurt your image, in your judgment, running for president? CLINTON: I don't think so. I mean look—ROSE: Not in favor of corporate regulations as she should be, says Elizabeth Warren. CLINTON: Well, all I know is that it was in 2007 that I called out Wall Street on the use of securities to, you know, play the mortgage market and called them out on the hedge fund loophole for carried interest. I have been very outspoken on this. And I have stood for a lot of regulation on big banks and on the financial services sector. I also represented New York and represented everybody from the dairy farmers, you know, to the fishermen. ROSE: From Wall Street to the dairy farmers. CLINTON: Yes—everybody. And so yes, do I know people and did I help rebuild after 9/11? Yes, I did but -- ROSE: And did you take money from them, they would say. CLINTON: Yes, but that has nothing to do with my position. Anybody who thinks that they can influence me on that ground doesn't know me very well. And these guys know me and they, you know—ROSE: Would you say the same thing when you see these reports about the foundation and money from the foundation while you were secretary of state, people were coming in to your—CLINTON: It's ludicrous. I mean it's ludicrous. I mean there's no there, there but the fact is I saw a lot of people when I was secretary of state and I worked really hard to increase exports from American businesses. I saw a lot of business people, I saw a lot of union leaders. I saw as many people as I could fit in the day who needed something from their government. You know, somebody would—Fred Smith would call me up from FedEx and say the Chinese government is taking away our permits. We have been in China for decades doing Federal Express. Or Corning, a company that I knew well from my time in the senate—they're trying to put a tariff on us that is going to drive us out of business. You know, I worked really hard to get more jobs for Americans, and that meant representing big business and small business and everybody in between. ROSE: Do we need to regulate Wall Street more than—CLINTON: We do. That's why I have probably the toughest, most comprehensive plan and it goes way beyond Glass-Steagall. It is much broader than that. It looks at shadow banking. It looks at all of the parts of the financial markets that influenced what happened in '08 but are not big banks like AIG, like Lehman Brothers. And Paul Krugman says I have the best plan. And Sherrod Brown who is a very tough—ROSE: Senator from Ohio. CLINTON:?—critic of the banks thinks I have the best plan. ROSE: Right, OK. Why do you want to be president? I mean you have had a remarkable life. CLINTON: Yes, I have. ROSE: You have been in the White House. There it is over there. CLINTON: There it is, right. Well, I'm not doing it to move back in, although it's a wonderful place. ROSE: So why are you doing it? I mean you know—is it about history? Is it about the first woman? CLINTON: No, no. I mean that would all be an extra added part of it. But for me, I really love this country and I think this will be one of those watershed elections where we're either going to get the economy to work for everybody or we are going to see increasing inequality and unfairness in a way that we haven't seen since, you know, the 1920s. We're either going to figure out how to live together despite all of our differences, show respect for people, enforce human rights, civil rights, women's rights, gay rights, workers' rights or we're going to really have the balance shift dramatically against the kind of democracy that I believe in that I think works best for America and we're either going to lead around the world or we're going to take a back seat and pay a big price for it. So there is a lot at stake in this election and, you know, the Republicans are certainly spurring me on because of what they say and how they say it and their values which are so negative and really mean-spirited in lots of ways. So I believe that we've got to wage and win an election about the future and the kind of country we want to have for, you know, my grandchild. ROSE: How is she doing? CLINTON: She's great. We had Thanksgiving with her. It was marvelous. ROSE: Thank you for coming. CLINTON: Thank you. ROSE: Pleasure to see you. CLINTON: Good to talk to you.
STEPHANOPOULOS: And we'll hear more on that from the president tonight. Let's get more on it now from Secretary Hillary Clinton, back on THIS WEEK for the first time this presidential campaign. And a reminder for everyone watching, I worked for President Clinton, made charitable contributions in the past to the Clinton Foundation. Welcome back. CLINTON: Thanks, George. STEPHANOPOULOS: Is it time to declare war on ISIS? CLINTON: Look, we are definitely in conflict with ISIS and I think we need a new update of military authorization. The AUMF, which was passed after the attack on 9/11, should be brought up to... STEPHANOPOULOS: Why not declare war? CLINTON: Well, declare war is a very legal term, as you know so well. I think what we want to do is make sure we have every tool at our disposal to, number one, destroy there would-be caliphate in Syria and in Ra—in Iraq. Number two, do everything we can to dismantle this very effective virtual jihadist network that they are using on the Internet. And number three, do whatever is necessary to protect us here at home. STEPHANOPOULOS: What are you concerned about in the declaration of war? CLINTON: Well, I think that the legal experts say that if we—there are a lot who say that we already have the authority we need to go after ISIS or any international terrorist network, including al Qaeda and anybody else in the AUMF. I think it is important, though, for the Congress to vote on behalf of the American people and to make sure that we are updating it to take into account the new authorities that that risks. STEPHANOPOULOS: You put—you've also been reluctant to say we're fighting radical Islam. And I wonder why not. Isn't it a mistake not to say it plain, that the violence is being pushed by radical elements in that faith? CLINTON: Well, that's a different thing. Radical elements who use a dangerous and distorted view of Islam to promote their jihadist ambitions, I'm fine with that. I say it all the time and I go after Islamic, too. STEPHANOPOULOS: So what's the problem with radical Islam? CLINTON: Well, the problem is that that sounds like we are declaring war against a religion. And that, to me, is, number one, wrong but... STEPHANOPOULOS: Even though the qualifier radical is there? CLINTON: No, because, look, that—you know enough about religion, you've studied it. And there are radicals, people who believe all kinds of things in every religion in the world. I don't want to do that because, number one, it doesn't do justice to the vast numbers of Muslims in our own country and around the world who are peaceful people. Number two, it helps to create this clash of civilizations that is actually a recruiting tool for ISIS and other radical jihadists who use this as a way of saying we're in a war against the West. You must join us. If you are a Muslim, you must join us. No. If you're a law-abiding, peace-loving Muslim, you need to be with us against those who are distorting Islam. STEPHANOPOULOS: Can you say today that we're winning the fight against ISIS? CLINTON: I could say today that we have a new set of threats. You know, if—if you go back and look where we were with al Qaeda in 9/11, there's no doubt bin Laden and his lieutenants were planning to carry out additional attacks, if they possibly could. And they did in places like Madrid and London, etc. So we have dealt with that threat. It doesn't go away. We haven't eliminated it, but we've dealt with it. Now, we have to turn our attention to the very sophisticated propagation of this new threat from ISIS. STEPHANOPOULOS: So we're not winning that battle yet? CLINTON: Well, we're not winning but it's too soon to say that we are doing everything we need to do. And I've outlined very clearly—STEPHANOPOULOS:—so if you—CLINTON:—we have to fight them in the air. We have to fight them on ground and we have to fight on the Internet. And we have to do everything we can with our friends and partners around the world to protect ourselves. STEPHANOPOULOS: If you were in the Oval Office tonight, would you be announcing a new strategy? CLINTON: Well, I think what—that's what we'll hear from the president, an intensification of the existing strategy and I think there's some additional steps we have to take. If you look at the story about this woman and maybe the man, too, who got radicalized, self-radicalized, we're going to need help from Facebook and from YouTube and from Twitter. They cannot permit the recruitment and the actual direction of attacks or the celebration of violence by this sophisticated Internet user. They're going to have to help us take down these announcements and these appeals—[crosstalk]—they get up. STEPHANOPOULOS: How about Apple? No more encryption? CLINTON: This is something I've said for a long time, George. I have to believe that the best minds in the private sector, in the public sector could come together to help us deal with this evolving threat. And you know, I know what the argument is from our friends in the industry. I respect that. Nobody wants to be feeling like their privacy is invaded. But I also know what the argument is on the other side from law enforcement and security professionals. So, please, let's get together and try to figure out the best way forward. STEPHANOPOULOS: Some of your potential rivals on the Republican side say we have to do more overseas as well. Ted Cruz says we have to carpet bomb ISIS. CLINTON: Well, that's an easy thing to say, you know. He's never had any responsibility for trying to figure out who the bad guys are and who innocent civilians are. Clearly we have to have a much more robust air campaign against ISIS targets, against the oil infrastructure, against their leadership. I think you'll hear that from the president. And part of what I have been arguing for, for quite some time now, is that we've got to do a better job of getting back the Sunnis on the ground, along with the Kurds, who can be the fighters who will actually take back territory with air cover and with targeted attacks on ISIS infrastructure. We still are going to have to have people fighting. Now I do not believe those should be American combat troops—[crosstalk] STEPHANOPOULOS: Absolutely not; is that an absolute—CLINTON: Where I sit right now, I think it would make things worse not better; I do believe we have to up our special ops numbers. The 50 that have been authorized need to get there. And then we need to take stock of what else we need. I think the more than 3,000 Americans that we have on the ground in Iraq, who are advising, assisting and enabling the Iraqi military have to be given the flexibility and support they need. And I believe strongly we should perhaps ask some of our current and retired military officers, who dealt with the Sunni sheikhs in Anbar and elsewhere to once again reconstitute the fighting force that they put into the fight against Al Qaeda in Iraq. And that was one of my biggest complaints about Maliki, because what he did was to basically not only destroy the military because of his sectarianism but also he went after those Sunni leaders in Anbar and we know from reporting that some of them are supportive of ISIS, some of the former Ba'ath military officers under Saddam Hussein. STEPHANOPOULOS: As you know, some of your Republican rivals have also criticized you for focusing on gun control after the San Bernardino attacks. Marco Rubio points out that France has some of the strictest gun control in the world. That didn't stop the Paris attacks. California has some of the strictest gun control laws here. It didn't stop those attacks, either. So what law would have stopped this? CLINTON: Well, first of all, what happened in San Bernardino was a terrorist act. Nobody is arguing with that. The law enforcement, FBI have come to that conclusion. And let's not forget, though, a week before we had an American assault on Planned Parenthood and some weeks before that we had an assault at a community college. So I don't see these two as in anyway contradictory. We have to up our game against terrorists abroad and at home and we have to take account of the fact that our gun laws and the easy access to those guns by people who shouldn't get them, mentally ill people, fugitives, felons and the Congress continuing to refuse to prohibit people on the no-fly list from getting guns, which include a lot of domestic and international terrorists, these are two parts of the same approach that I'm taking to make us safe. And, yes, the NRA's position always is, you know, if you can't stop everything, why try to stop anything? That's not the way law works. I mean, we have laws that are going to govern our speed limits on roads, knowing some people are going to violate it or people are going to drive drunk. But we still have laws. We need to have comprehensive background checks. We need to close the gun show loophole, close the online loophole, go after what's call the Charleston loophole and end the liability for gun sellers. STEPHANOPOULOS: On this no-fly list, the critics of that vote say that you know, you look back at this; it's indiscriminate and they go back 10 years and say 2,000 people on the watch list actually did buy guns; government hasn't found any of them committing a crime with a gun. CLINTON: Well, again, that's like proving the negative. We have a list; if you are on that list and you believe you should not be on that list, we have a process to actually raise your objections about being on that list. You get on the list because there is some credible evidence you belong on the list. Now obviously, that—STEPHANOPOULOS: Some mistakes sometimes. CLINTON:—some mistakes, of course. That's why there's a process for people to be able to raise their concerns about being on the list and then to have a process that could even lead to a legal action to remove yourself from the list. But I, for one, am a lot—I took the shuttle from New York. I'm a lot happier having a list that keeps people off planes that there's any question about their intent or their potential behavior. So I'm not—I can't take anybody seriously who's going to begin to chip away at the no-fly list. STEPHANOPOULOS: Donald Trump and yesterday Jerry Falwell Jr. say the answer is for more good people to have guns. Mr. Falwell urged his students at Liberty University to actually arm themselves, get concealed carry permits. Your response? CLINTON: Well, he also went on—and don't forget he said this, George. He said, that way, we can take out the Muslims. He said that, OK? This is the kind of deplorable, not only hateful response to a legitimate security issue but it is giving aid and comfort to ISIS and other radical jihadists. With respect to the gun issue, it' s legal to buy guns in America if you are eligible to buy a gun, you can go buy a gun and hundreds of thousands of people apparently are in the aftermath of what happened in San Bernardino. I just want people to understand some of the threats we now face, whether it's the guy in Charleston, who should have never have been given a gun but the universal background check was not fast enough, didn't find the fact he was prohibited, went into the church and killed nine innocent people, we should be able to approach both of these with some sense of, you know, unity about how we prevent terrorist attacks and how we prevent the wrong people from getting a hold of guns. STEPHANOPOULOS: We have to take a quick break. Stand by. Much more from Secretary Clinton later. Another live exclusive, one of the men by the taker on from a Florida governor, Jeb Bush. [commercial break] [begin video clip] JEB BUSH: I think you're looking at the next Republican nominee. And here's—and here's what I promised to you, should I win this nomination I will take it to Hillary Clinton and I will whoop her. [end video clip] STEPHANOPOULOS: Jeb Bush there. Hillary Clinton here right now. And as he's hoping, he's going to come up live in just a little bit hoping to take you on in the general election if you get the nomination. I want to get into some of the issues that may come up in a general election. One of the things you're seeing Republicans really take aim at is your spending and investment programs. CLINTON: Right. STEPHANOPOULOS: On the show right here, proposed about $1 trillion... CLINTON: Over 10 years. STEPHANOPOULOS: Over 10 years in spending proposals that a lot of questions on whether you can actually pay for it by focusing tax increases only on the top 3 percent. Here's a Washington Post editorial. They say there is simply no way that the federal government can meet its current fiscal commitments plus the increased demands of an aging population and provide the new forms of middle class relief and business tax relief Mrs. Clinton promises while tapping only the top 3 percent of earners. Your response? CLINTON: Well, I just respectfully disagree. And that's why I've laid out very specific plans about the kind of investments that I think Middle Class families particularly need that we have to have to, you know, grow our economy. And I've been very specific about how I will pay for each of those. And that is part of the, you know, underlying principle of presenting the...[crosstalk] But I think it's a little bit amusing that the Republican National Committee would go after me, since all of their candidates and their party philosophy is massive spending cuts and massive tax decreases for those at the very top with no thought to how to pay for it or the trillions of dollars it would add to the national debt, you know. I do come from the Clinton school of economics. And when my husband ended, we had a balanced budget and a surplus. Then President Obama inherited the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression. I don't think he gets the credit he deserves for digging us out. So, we're standing. And now we've got to start moving into the future again. It is going to take good fiscal responsibility, that's what I'm promising. But I'm also promising that the wealthy are going to start paying more of their fair share and help to fund some of the investments that I'm paying for. STEPHANOPOULOS: They're also saying no tax increases at all anyone earning under $250,000. Is that a rock solid "read my lips" promise? CLINTON: Well, it certainly is my goal. And I've laid it out in this campaign. And it's something that President Obama promised. It's something my husband certainly tried to achieve, because I want Americans to know that I get it, that a lot of the losses that they experienced because of the great recession are still really pulling them down. You know, $13 trillion in family wealth was destroyed by the great recession. People lost their homes, their 401(k)s and IRAs, their college funds. So, we've got to rebuild the middle class. If we expect to have broad based prosperity, that doesn't come from... STEPHANOPOULOS: So, it's your goal, but what if you can't get the revenue in other ways. What if the spending comes in more than it is. Will you then raise taxes? CLINTON: You know, George, I'm going to tell you what I'm going to do. And I'm going to continue to stick with what I'm going to do. $100 billion a year in these new investments all paid for I think is a responsible approach to getting our economy creating good jobs again. You know, I have an infrastructure plan that's on top of what the congress just passed. So, I'm going to go out there and I'm going to defend what I'm doing. And I'm also really going to defend the Middle Class, because a lot of these proposals would have a very bad effect. Either it would raise taxes on the Middle Class or it would undermine the kind of growth and structure that we need for the Middle Class to take off again. STEPHANOPOULOS: Another challenge you could face in this campaign, a majority of Americans question your honesty. Some GOP rivals and family members of the Benghazi victims are saying you lied to them in that hearing. They point to emails that you sent the night of the attack, one to your daughter, Chelsea Clinton, saying—I'm going to have to put my glasses on here to actually read this. "We were silent...two of our officers were killed in Benghazi by an al Qaeda-like group." Another one to the Egyptian prime minister, "we know that the attack in Libya had nothing to do with the film. It was a planned attack, not a protest." But the family members, as you know, say you told them it was by a filmmaker, you'd go after the filmmaker. Here's what they said. [begin video clip] UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: She lied. She absolutely lied. Her daughter was able to be told differently that it was not the video, it was something else. Now if her daughter could be told, why can't I? UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Either she was lying to the prime minister, or she was lying to me and to the American public. [end video clip] STEPHANOPOULOS: Did you tell them it was not the film? And what's your response? CLINTON: No. You know, look I understand the continuing grief at the loss that parents experienced with the loss of these four brave Americans. And I did testify, as you know, for 11 hours. And I answered all of these questions. Now, I can't—I can't help it the people think there has to be something else there. I said very clearly there had been a terrorist group that had taken responsibility on Facebook between the time that I—you know, when I talked to my daughter, that was the latest information. We were giving it credibility. And then we learned the next day it wasn't true. In fact, they retracted it. This was a fast moving series of events in the fog of war. And I think most Americans understand. STEPHANOPOULOS: How about more generally. Do you think there's something you can do to get a majority of Americans to believe you're trustworthy? CLINTON: Well, you know, obviously I don't like hearing that, George. But I think people who have worked with me, people who voted for me twice in New York, people who I've had a very long relationship with and working on their behalf are going to know what I do and when I say I will do it I will move everything I can to get it done. And I believe the American people who are looking for somebody who is a fighter, who will stand up there, just as I did, tell you what I will do, tell you I will do everything to make it happen. And I think my values have been consistent over the years. And the results that I've gotten are ones that I'm going to take to the American public. STEPHANOPOULOS: Immigration going to be a big issue in this campaign? In the past, you've said that undocumented immigrants would not be covered by your health care proposals. Here's an exchange we had in 2007. [begin video clip] STEPHANOPOULOS: Would illegal immigrants be covered under your plan? CLINTON: Illegal immigrants would not be covered. No. They would not be covered. I will continue to have a safety net, which I think is in the best traditions of our country and also for public health reasons absolutely necessary. But we did not cover them in '93, '94 and my plan does not cover them now. [end video clip] STEPHANOPOULOS: Now you say that undocumented immigrants should be able to buy into the exchanges. So why the shift? CLINTON: Well, because number one the kind of plan that was passed in the Affordable Care Act gives you a market-based way of getting into the insurance market. So, if you can afford to buy a policy, you can. You don't get, however, any of the subsidies that American citizens get. STEPHANOPOULOS: Martin O'Malley says they should. Why not? CLINTON: Well, I disagree with him. I think part of comprehensive immigration reform should be looking at all of these issues. But as things stand right now, under the Affordable Care Act, if you have the money and you are undocumented, you can buy into it, but without the subsidies. That's why it's important we continue to support community health centers, we continue to support our hospitals because those are often the places that undocumented people and poor people go. STEPHANOPOULOS: And what's the reason for not going further? CLINTON: Because I don't think legally you can. I mean, that is not something that we can legally support. The law is very clear about that. STEPHANOPOULOS: Donald Trump. Last few days he's opened up—you're laughing again. CLINTON: I'm sorry. I can't help it. STEPHANOPOULOS: He's opening up a new line of attack on you. Here it is. CLINTON: Oh, dear. A new one, huh? [begin video clip] TRUMP: She'll do a couple of minutes in Iowa, meaning a short period of time, and then she goes home and you don't see her for five, six days, she goes home, she goes to sleep. I'm telling you. She...[laughter]...she doesn't have the strength, she doesn't have the stamina. [end video clip] CLINTON: Oh, goodness gracious. [laughter] You know... STEPHANOPOULOS: I guess you don't agree. CLINTON: Well, who can agree with anything he says that is, you know, subject to one second of fact checking? Look, if he gets the nomination, I will be more than happy to campaign against him. STEPHANOPOULOS: Is he the one you want to run against? CLINTON: I don't really think about it that way. I don't have any influence over who they nominate over there and, in fact, he's not the only one saying things that are deeply distressing. A lot of the others are kind of Trump 2, you know? Oh, whatever Trump says, maybe we won't go quite as far, but we'll get as close as we can. So the Republicans, in their presidential nominating process, have a lot to answer for. STEPHANOPOULOS: How do you explain why he's doing so well? CLINTON: I don't know, because he's a—he's a reality TV star. I mean tens of millions of people have watched him for more than a decade on TV and he is part of the celebrity and he will stay whatever he wants to say and if he's held account, that—it's not true, he just brushes it off and he goes on. And I think that, you know, there's a certain attractiveness to people that here's a guy who says exactly what he believes, untrue as it may be, inflammatory as it certainly is. STEPHANOPOULOS: Finally, you said you're getting better at learning from your critics. They tell you things that your friends won't. So what have you learned from your critics in this campaign? CLINTON: You know, I've said for a long time, George, that I try—I try to take criticism seriously but not personally. And by that I mean, look, if somebody says, hey, you know, you didn't do—or she didn't do a good job answering this or, you know, I don't think that that, you know, adds up, whatever they might say, I will take that seriously. But I really try not to take it personally and I think that's a big distinction that you have to begin to draw when you're in the public arena. You know, one of my favorite Americans, Eleanor Roosevelt, said for any woman in the public arena, you have to grow skin as thick as a rhinoceros and, you know, I try to put lotion on it, but I have...[laughter]...I've had to grow a lot of thick skin over the years. STEPHANOPOULOS: Thanks for joining us today. CLINTON: Thanks, George.
CLINTON: Wow. Thank you. Thank you all. Thank you. I am really delighted to be here on the first winter day of this season. [laughter] To be here in this beautiful city and church that has been the site of a lot of occasions. And especially to be introduced by Brenda, who, as she said, I first met in a town hall in Dover all those months ago.  And you know, when you call on people in town halls, as you'll see in a minute, you have no idea what they're going to say or what they are going to ask. And when I called on her, she basically said I have a husband with early onset Alzheimer's, I have a mother with Alzheimer's. I'm taking care of them. What are you going to do about Alzheimer's? And it really caused me to think hard about the kind of president I want to be. Obviously, I want to be a president who gets the economy moving for everybody and get incomes rising and more good paying jobs. And I want to be a president that keeps us safe and secure, and takes on the threat and dangers that we face. But I also want to be a president who works for families, like Brenda's. Who understands that the problems we keep you up at night are ones that we also have to take seriously. So, it means the world to me to have her support in this campaign. And as I've said to her and to others who have raised issues with me during the course of my time here in New Hampshire, I will do everything I can to try and find answers. You know, in Alzheimer's, as she said, we have got five million people currently suffering. The projection is for many millions more. It is the sixth leading cause of death in America. But unlike the other causes in the top ten, there is no real path to prevention or effective treatment, or a cure, as there is with other diseases that take so many lives. So, my proposal is that we tackle all three of those. What can we do to try and prevent it? What can we do to try to more effectively treat it? And what would it take to invest in finding a cure? And after talking to experts, the leading experts in our country—not just in Alzheimer's, but in other neurodegenerative diseases, like Parkinson's, the overwhelming response was, if we invested just $2 billion more a year, we would make tremendous progress. And we would have a real shot at understanding more about this disease and trying to cure it. And the heavens support what we are going to do on behalf of Alzheimer's, and the patients, the families and the caregivers. [applause] So, I want to thank my friend Terry Narelli , who I see here, for her great service and leadership over so many years, and for her friendship. And I want to just make a few other quick acknowledgments. And then we will move on to be ready for the questions. The mayor. I want to thank the mayor. Where is Mayor Lister? I saw him earlier. He's here somewhere. There he is. There he is. Thank you so much, Mayor. Wonderful to see you, thank you for your support. And to the South Church, thank you for letting us be here today. [applause] And to the overflow, which I stopped by to see on my way here. It was packed. We thank you for your patience. They have got a big screen, they are having a good time watching. And we are delighted they are here as well. As Brenda said, on January 20, 2017, someone will raise a hand and take the oath of office, and become our 45th president. That person will, after being sworn in, and the celebrations that go with an inauguration, go into the White House, go into the oval office, and face the challenges that await. This will be a consequential election in so many ways. Because we have work to do. I'm excited about the work. I'm confident and optimistic about the work we can do together. [applause] But I need all of you to be part of this campaign, to be part of the first in the nation primary, because in many ways, you are the first—or depending on how you define it, the last line of defense. The decision that New Hampshire makes is so important. And I've had a great time traveling across the state, meeting, by now, thousands and thousands of people. Having a chance to set forth my ideas and answer questions on whatever might be on someone's mind. And I know that we are going to make the right decision—not because my name will be on the ballot, but because all of us know what the stakes are, and how high they happen to be. So I'm excited and very much looking forward to the sprint towards the primary and to have a chance to hear even more for more folks here in the granite state about what is on your mind, about the big economic challenges, the security issues, and all those problems they keep you up at night. I have learned a lot listening to folks here in New Hampshire. I learned a lot about the struggles, the opportunities, the disappointments. As you know, I have had two full town hall meetings just on the issue of substance abuse. When I made a list of what I was going to talk about in this campaign, it wasn't on that list. But on my first trip here to New Hampshire in Keene, that was what was raised with me. And then on visit after visit, I was given mass cards showing the pictures of beautiful young people no longer with us because of overdoses. I met those in recovery, who thankfully, were able to get help when they needed it. I met grandmothers like myself, raising children because their children couldn't, lost to opioid addiction, heroin addiction. So that's why taking the big issue to me. I will never stop leading with the values that I was raised with about who we are as Americans, what we're capable of doing. I will never stop listening, learning about what's on people's minds. I think you actually learn more when you listen. And I will never stop trying to work with you to solve problems. That's the America that I was raised in, that's the America that I think we all cherish and that's the America that I'm going to do everything I can as your president to make sure it's stronger and better and fairer for everybody going forward. [applause] So let me now turn to all of you and if you raise your hand, I think we have some microphones somewhere that we will try to get to you and give you a chance. This young—this woman right there. Yes, right there. Yes. Please stand up. Great. QUESTION: Hi. Hi. This is such an honor. You look stunning and I've always wanted to talk with you. [applause] I have been on your bandwagon since you were first lady. We are nine days apart, but I know why you look so much better, because you're younger. [laughter] But it's a dream come true to have this interaction. As a cancer survivor, three years ago and going through surgery, chemo, radiation, and having a job I loved, I was let go from my job in the private sector. However, I did come to redo myself as a justice of the peace in Massachusetts and I work now with elderly through Brookline Council on aging. And I have seen people up close and personal that are delights, as well as being able to hear them. And one of the issues I have heard lately is the hearing is a problem and that they cannot afford to buy hearing aids because they are thousands of dollars. As a senior myself now, the affordable health care for getting the supplements to Medicare is an issue as well, because if you're not—if you're too far above $100, $200 above the guidelines for Medicaid or mass health, then you cannot—you have to pay full prices to supplements, but the seniors are saying they need help in hearing. CLINTON: Have any of you heard this before, that seniors who need help with hearing can't afford to get the hearing aids because the hearing aids are so expensive? This is something that... [applause] I think a lot of people thought we would figure out a way to solve in the Affordable Care Act, but we haven't yet, and it's something that I take really seriously because if you can't hear well, very often, people kind of withdrawal and they become more isolated, and in fact, some of the recent research shows that, you know, that can be a trigger for other kinds of conditions and diseases. So I don't think hearing aids when you can't hear are a luxury, I think they're a necessity. And I'm going to do everything I can... [applause] ... to move—to move them from what would be the elective list to a supported list so that people who have financial problems will be able to get help to afford them because you're 100 percent right. It's a growing concern, in part because we have a lot more people living longer and part because we have a lot more people losing their hearing earlier. Some people say it's because of loud music that some of us remember listening to, but for whatever reason it might be, there are a lot of issues around it. So I'm going to do what I can to make sure we make hearing aids financially available on a sliding scale so more people who need them can actually get them. [applause] Yeah, this gentleman right there. Yeah, right there in the yellow tie. Here comes the microphone. QUESTION: Good afternoon. My name is Mr. Rogers. I happen to be in your neighborhood. [laughter] I have a message for you; I'm from Liberia. Liberia, we elected the first female president in the continent of Africa. You already talked about... [applause] ... your hand is raised up to take that oath. I'm here on behalf of the Republic of Liberia, from Johnson-Sirleaf the president of Liberia, to say hi to you. Since 5 o'clock this morning—I don't know where I was going—I have to find my way here. But do me one favor. I want to take a picture with you and send it to her that I was here as I promised. [laughter] If you don't mind please. If you don't mind. CLINTON: We will do that when we finish. Don't let me forget, and I have a feeling you won't. [laughter] But the president of Liberia, Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf, who has been elected twice—as you rightly say, the first woman president anywhere on the continent of Africa—has been... [applause] ... has been an extraordinary leader. I mean, she inherited an economy and a government that was bankrupt. They had had this terrible long civil war that had just destroyed so much of the productive capacity in addition to taking so many lives and leaving so many maimed and injured people behind, and a lot of Liberians left Liberia because of the lack of safety. She has been, I think, incredibly focused on trying to improve the government, improve the economy. Then she was dealt the terrible blow of Ebola and all that it meant to her country. And I want to tell you just a quick story because it's good to remember how important it is to keep trying to work with people even if you have serious disagreements with them. I went to visit President Sirleaf when I was secretary of State and got a big briefing from all of her top officials about what was happening in her government and what they were trying to accomplish, and then I was supposed to go speak to the parliament, their Congress. And she took me aside and she said I want you to go and speak about how hard democracy is, how hard we must work together, how we have to move past the past and then said to me some of the very people who are now in the parliament were people who were very much involved in the civil war and some of the terrible things that happened there. The leaders went to war crimes tribunal, but others for whom there wasn't evidence or they played minor roles were actually elected. Well, you can imagine. So I go to the parliament and I speak about democracy and all the rest of it and take some pictures and do some visits afterwards, and I thought boy, we think we have it hard, here she is trying to work with a Congress that includes people who were mortal enemies with one another against her, against others, and she's working so hard to make this democracy what it should be against tremendous odds. So when we complain about our problems here in this country, we need to put them into some perspective and we need to figure out how we're going to work together even with people we disagree with... [applause] ... going into the future. So thank you. We'll take a picture, I promise. OK, we've got this young lady in the red. Yeah. And then I'll go further back to... QUESTION: Thank you so much for being here and taking my question. I am the mother of a 16-year-old boy who is smart and beautiful, but he also really struggles with mental illness and he's currently in an in-patient program right now. And I think my family, I think anyone would agree that my family has incredibly great health insurance. And I know that mental health parity is the law. But we still have to fight for every single admission, every single bit of treatment that we have asked for him—that the experts, his doctors who know him well all agree that this is what he needs to get better. And the health insurance company constantly tries to whittle it down and only provide the minimum amount. And, you know, as a parent with a sick child, I only have so much energy to fight this fight and something just really needs to be done. CLINTON: How many of you know somebody with mental health problems? [applause] How many of you know how difficult it is to get the medical care you need to help somebody with mental health problems? What—what you're describing is exactly the case. We passed a law—I remember voting for it back in the day—and then there was another law passed and it was incorporated in the Affordable Care Act, for what they call parity for mental health. In other words, if you have a physical illness, whatever it might be, you're supposed to get treated for it. If you have a mental health illness, you need to get treated for that, too. Number one, we need finally to remove the stigma from mental health, because... [applause] ... too often I hear from parents who say, "I no longer even tell people that my son has schizophrenia; my daughter is bipolar; my child has got, you know, chronic depression, because I feel like I'm judged." No. We're learning more about how the brain operates. That's one of the things we want to do. That's part of what my goal is for Alzheimer's research. We have to understand the brain. We have to unlock its secrets. I really applaud President Obama for the investment in the brain project that his administration has made. So we need to remove the stigma and we need to enforce the law so you get the quality and the number of treatments you need, whether it's out-patient or in-patient. And I'm going to work with the mental health community, which has laid out an agenda about how we get this right once and for all, because it's not fair. It's not fair to the person suffering and it's certainly not fair to the families who are trying to cope with that suffering and get the medical care that is needed. So I'll do everything I can to make it somewhat easier for you and your son going forward. [applause] Yes, this young man right here. QUESTION: When you become president... [crosstalk] QUESTION: When you become president, what is your plan to connect mental health problems and guns to make sure that me, my brothers and my friends are safe from violence at school? CLINTON: Oh, wow. [applause] I'm going to do everything I can do. And I'm never going to stop trying. Because right now, we lose 90 people a day to gun violence—homicides, suicides and tragic avoidable accidents. That's 33,000 people a year. I think we need to pass the laws that I have been advocating for. We need comprehensive background checks. We need to close the gun show loophole, close the online loophole. [applause] And we need to make sure that the information that is needed to make the judgment about whether someone is qualified to buy a gun is in the record. And very often, we don't have real-time information because we also have to close what's called the Charleston loophole, where the killer in Charleston went to buy a gun. He filled out the form. Under the loophole, he could come back and get it after three business days. The information that he wasn't eligible because he had a felony conviction didn't come through until after he went—used that gun and murdered nine people in a church like this in Charleston. So we have work to do. And the mental health piece of this is especially troubling, because you don't want to unfairly stigmatize people, but you want to protect the community, so you've got to have information. The killer at Virginia Tech, you might remember, had been committed. But that information was not in the records. We need to prohibit people who are drastic abusers with restraining orders against them from getting guns. And we certainly should get the Congress to prohibit anyone who is on the no-fly list, the would-be terrorists, from buying guns in America. And... [applause] CLINTON: ... and we need to repeal the immunity from liability that was given to gun makers and sellers by the Congress... [applause] ... so that we can do as good a job as possible trying to prevent people who shouldn't have guns in the first place from getting them. And I know we can do this in a constitutionally consistent way. So I'm going to reach out. I'll work with anybody, but I will also continue to advocate for this, because we are in a whole different era, where these mass shootings, these 33,000 people killed every year, has become a rebuke to us, that we can't figure—figure out how to deal with this. And I, personally, am asking gun owners to support these changes. Because right now, what I just outlined—comprehensive background checks and the like—is supported by 92 percent of Americans and 85 percent of gun owners. But the gun lobby lives off of fear and misinformation and is willing to say and do whatever it takes... [applause] CLINTON: And it is really time for gun owners to form a different organization that will do more on gun safety, do more on gun responsibility, and stand up for the safety of our children and our communities. [applause] CLINTON: OK. This gentleman with the cap on has been standing up. So why—why don't you ask the next question, sir? QUESTION: Thank you so much, Hillary. First and foremost, I want to say that I love you. [laughter] And I really mean it. And so—my name is James Mackey , I'm a community organizer for a non-profit organization called Teen Empowerment. And what we do is we hire young people to talk about issues, and we create initiatives around those issues to build relationships with young people in the community. And so, I work in Boston, Dorchester, Roxbury, Mattapan, all the—all the... [applause] ... thank you. All the communities that are underserved. And so my question to you is, is that—so we just lost one of our youth organizers, two days ago, from a tragic accident. And there are 5.6 million young people around our nation who are 16 to 24, who are disconnected from school as well as from work. And when they are not in school or at work, what are they doing? And—and plus, they're in underserved communities. And so my question to you is, what is your stance on supporting young people who really need opportunity, and more resources out there for better education, as well as better employment? And what will you do as president to help support those 5.6 million young people around the nation who it is affecting? Yeah. [applause] CLINTON: Thank you. Thank you. And first of all, thank you for being an organizer and reaching out to young people. That is so important. And... [applause] ... I hope you heard what he said, because think about this number: 5.6 million young people between 16 and 24, who are neither in school nor at work. That is a recipe for unemployment, for incarceration, for all kinds of behavior that has bad consequences for themselves and for their families. And it's something I care deeply about, because if you look at where we are, underserved communities have had a resurgence of poverty. Inner-cities, old suburbs, small towns and rural areas, Native American reservations, coal country, this is across America where we have disconnected young people from a path to a productive life. And I think we've got to figure out how we rebuild that. So I am absolutely committed and I am going to say quickly three things. I want to support programs like what you described you do, because we've got to get people in the communities—it's literally a one on one project in many cases. What is it that can be done for John or Mary or whomever? So we need to support nonprofit groups, advocacy groups, organizing groups, faith communities to do this work. But secondly, we have to take a hard look. And one of the ideas that I have been thinking about is we take a hard look at communities where you have very persistent poverty, poor education outcomes, other kinds of indicators of problems. And we really have to figure out what works. People have tried a whole bunch of different things, and a lot of it doesn't work. Throwing money at it doesn't necessarily work. Building relationships is the work that has to be done. How do we do that? I don't think the answer lies in Washington, although as president, I can be a convener, a coordinator, a catalyst. I think we have to do this in communities. And I want to provide support and resources, where possible, to give more people a chance to do that relationship building. We are going to need more GED programs very we need more community college programs. We are going to need more apprenticeship programs. We're going to need more pathways out. And we are going to have to also take a hard look at the living conditions and the schooling conditions that a lot of these kids face. I used to have what I would call the Chelsea test, when I would go into the school. And as the first lady in Arkansas, the first lady in the United States or the Senator in New York, I would walk into a school and I would spend some time, I would look around. I would look at the physical facilities, I'd talk to the staff area and I would say, would I want my daughter to go to the school? A lot of times the answer was yes, absolutely. A lot of time the answer was no. Some of the conditions, the physical conditions in these schools was deplorable. And then you have to look at the housing that a lot of people are living in. A lot of this housing is really substandard but in dangerous ways. and I will just end with this. Lead paint poisoning effects many, many children in the northeast, the mid-atlantic, and the midwest, where we had a lot of old housing. Where we have old pipes on water supplies. Lead poisoning is an academic and behavioral deficits inducement. People end up being worse off. And we are not doing enough to notice it, to deal with it, to eradicate it. So there's a lot I think we have to take a hard look at. And I will do that. But it will be in partnership with young people like you and the groups you recognize and represent. Thank you. [applause] CLINTON: I see a hand way back there. Yes, yes. Black and white, yes. Right there. Yes. QUESTION: Thank you, Secretary Clinton. It is an honor. I'm from Alabama and I know it is important for candidates to focus on undecided voters in swing states. But for liberals and conservatives states, we sometimes feel left out of the fray. And I would hope that the Democratic Party and your campaign will go into those conservative states and really push and give us hope and encouragement that your platforms will be heard there. And I ask you, please don't leave us to the Republicans. [laughter] [applause] CLINTON: Well, I have been down to Alabama twice already in this campaign. And I will do my best to help rebuild the Democratic Party in places where it hasn't been particularly successful in recent years. Because I think there is a lot we can recommend. I really do. I think that our view about what we need to do to get the economy going again, and fix all the problems that we see with the Affordable Care Act, and get early childhood education—you know, there is a very inconvenient fact that my Republican friends hate when I mention. But it is true. Our economy does better when we have a Democrat in the White House. [applause] And that is true in Alabama, just like it's true anywhere. And we are going to make that case, do the very best we can to kind of get people to recognize that we are all in this together. And getting the economy to work better, getting our government to be more effective and productive in producing results, building on the progress that President Obama made it—remember, he inherited the worst financial crisis since the Great Recession. And then he had to make sure it didn't fall into a Great Depression. I don't think he gets the credit he deserves for making sure that did not happen. [applause] So, we are going to make that case. We are going to make that case throughout the country. I hope, effectively. At least, I'm counting on that. Yes, the man in the blue vest. Yeah, yeah. QUESTION: This is an honor. I'm a retired teacher from Massachusetts. I've never been involved in any political aspects. I've—we are about the same age, actually, Hillary. So, it's only—I respect one woman in my life, which is my wife. You are the No. 2 woman I respect more than any woman on this planet. I have watched you since your—you know, your early political days. We are both grandparents of very young grandchildren. I'm a little bit nervous here. But I just wanted to tell you that there is one thing that has—in the minds of most people—we have doubt. We have doubt about so many things that we've hoped for, and we've seen evolve. You eliminate doubt for someone like me. You eliminate doubt. I have—your knowledge and your grasp of what's happening, and what you've been through, and what you see—and things that you know that we don't know are what make me feel confident that you were going to be the next president. [applause] Thank you. Thank you. There is a little hand right there, that little girl right there. I like having all of these young people here. QUESTION: Hi. Hi, I'm Ella. I think that there is a lot of people who don't have enough money for college, and schools and that kind of stuff. So, how can we help that? CLINTON: It's a very good question, Ella. [applause] That is a great question. How many people have student debt, or ever had student debt? Guess that's nearly everybody here, practically. Look, I think there are two things, two big things we have to do. First, I want to make college debt-free, so that you don't have to borrow money for tuition to go to a four-year public college or university. [applause] And it will work, because what we are going to do is to focus on it being a compact between the federal government and state governments, and institutions. Because I do think that colleges and universities have to take a really hard look at what they are spending money on. [applause] So, that they make sure what they are spending on is related to helping prepare a student for life, for profession or career. I think states have dis-invested in higher education. A lot of the money that states use to put into colleges and universities has gone into everything from prisons to roads, you name it. So, we got to figure out how the state does more of its fair share. I think that in order for it to be debt free, families above a certain income level will have to continue to fund college. I think that's only fair. And I want students to work 10 hours a week. Because I want students to know they are working for their education. And that it's something they really value. [applause] And I want to do more on national service so more students get big discounts because they will have done national service. Military service, civilian service. [applause] And we've got a good G.I. bill now coming after 9/11—a new G.I. bill for the new generation of vets, but I want to make sure they don't get ripped off because sometimes that veteran education money is going to institutions that don't really serve them well. So we have some work to do to make sure that it is done right. And then I want to help you pay down your debt by refinancing your debt. Just like you can refinance a mortgage or a car payment, you ought to be able to refinance your college debt. [applause] And it really is quite disturbing to me that we have had, as everybody knows in the last several years, because of the great recession, mostly—we've had really low interest rates. And yet, when I ask students what interest rate they are paying on their debt, lots of them are paying six, seven, eight, nine, 10 percent. Some of it private, some of it to the government. And I do not believe the federal government should be making a profit off of lending money to students to be able to go get a college education. [applause] So we're going to—we're going to make a lot of changes, Ella. So certainly by the time you get there, but hopefully sooner, we will have a lot of good changes that you'll be able to take advantage of. Yes. There's a lady right here and maybe—let's see. Here comes the microphone. Right there. QUESTION: Thank you for coming to Portsmouth. I was very disappointed in the last debate that the international agreement on climate that was agreed upon in Paris was not even mentioned. So could you comment on that and tell us as president, what you would do? CLINTON: Yes. I happen to think the... [applause] The Paris agreement was a historic achievement and I give a lot of credit to President Obama's leadership because if the United States had not led, it would not have happened, and I know how hard it was, because President Obama and I went to the big international climate meeting in Copenhagen in 2009. And literally, we could not even get a meeting with the Chinese, the Indians, the South Africans and the Brazilians. Led by the Chinese, who did not want to have a meeting with us where they might make a commitment to actually doing anything. And so we had to chase them around this big convention center in Copenhagen, and we finally found them. Chinese guards were preventing the entry in and the president is a lot taller than I am, and so he just kind of pushed through in the hands went up so I ducked under and we got in the room. [laughter] And then, you know, the president says, "We've been looking all over for you." We pulled up chairs and we sat down and we said, "You know, look, we have to begin this process." And their argument was the typical argument. "We didn't cause the problem. It was the developed countries." We said, "Look, that's fine, but you are now the biggest emitters and you are going to have to help solve the problems," and they began to agree to do some internal accounting and public reporting. Fast forward from '09, we had a series of climate meetings in Cancun and Durban, and we made progress. So the agreement coming out of Paris does, for the first time, include every nation, regardless of level of development or need or threat from climate change. And now, we have to enforce it. So as president, I would do everything I can, using every tool that I had to hold other nations accountable, including our own, about what we need to do both to try desperately to move more quickly away from fossil fuels towards clean, renewable energy, to try to at least put a cap on temperature rise and emissions and try the best we can at the same time to do more on resilience and adaptation to try and help countries and parts of countries that are particularly at risk. Portsmouth is the seacoast city. You all—I know the mayor and everybody, you're working hard on resilience and you're really taking a hard look, but you need a partner in Washington and in the Congress, as well as the president. There are a lot of places in our country—Alaska has already been hit hard. They've had to relocate some villages from the coastline. I know that Miami is really facing some big challenges. So we've got to get serious about this because it's happening. We are seeing the results of this drastic increase in temperature that human activity has not just contributed to, but caused. So, it's time for us to... [applause] ... deal with the problem, but I believe it's also a great opportunity. And this is what I have a hard time understanding from my Republican counterparts. You know, they all are into denial and when asked about climate change typically will say well I don't know, I'm not a scientist. You know, the answer to that is go talk to one... [laughter] ... and listen to what the scientists tell you, and... [applause] ... so from my perspective, we have economic opportunities here that we're leaving on the table. We can do so much more, putting people to work in wind, in solar, in advanced biofuels. We can make a difference in the economy with new, good-paying jobs. And I will say this. You know, when I'm not in New Hampshire, I'm often in Iowa. Iowa now produces one-third of its electricity from renewables, predominantly wind. Seven thousand people now work in the wind industry. They are now assembling turbines in old, abandoned factories, they are educating young people in the community colleges to actually work on these turbines. So they have gone the whole supply chain, and good for them. Every state should be doing the same. Every state has that same economic potential here... [applause] ... and when we—when we let politics, really politics that are under the thumb of the fossil fuel industry—and in particular, the Koch Brothers—decide the future of our country, shame on us. We're better than that, we're smarter than that, and we all—Republican, Democrat, Independent, whatever—we all need to say we are taking on this challenge and we're going to make jobs and incomes rise because of it. That to me is the right approach for us to be taking. [applause] Oh my goodness. So many hands, so little time. Well, you're standing right there. Why don't we go with that lady right there. Yeah. QUESTION: Hi, thank you. I've spent a lot of time teaching art in women's prisons, and the majority of the women I've worked with are from minority, low-income families and the majority of them are in their second, third, fourth visits to prison, and they say it's easier to just live in that cycle than try to break out of it. How would you approach helping end that cycle? [applause] CLINTON: First of all, thank you for working in our prisons. You know, we are still in the midst of the holiday season, and for those of us who celebrate Christmas, it's good to remember that we are called upon to care for the homeless and the stranger and the prisoner, the refugee. Those are important reminders at a time when there's so much political dispute about all of this, and I think we have incarcerated too many people. We have 5 percent of the world's population... [applause] ... but 25 percent of the prison population, and we actually have one-third of women who are imprisoned anywhere in the world imprisoned in the Untied States. So we have to begin in a thoughtful way to deal with the effects of incarceration. Obviously, from my perspective, we need to take a hard look at the low-level, non-violent offenses for which people end up incarcerated. We have to take a hard look at our bail system because we have too many people in jail and prison who haven't even been tried yet. We don't know if they're guilty of anything other than poverty because they can't meet the bail that has been set for them. And we need to do a careful analysis of who can and should be released from prison while we try to deal with people who don't pose a threat to the community, particularly the numbers of people with low-level drug offenses who need treatment, not imprisonment. And so we've got to look at all of this and... [applause] ... yet, I don't think that's enough, and it goes back to the gentleman's question over there in the hat. The issue is, OK, if we're going to divert people from prison, what are the things we're going to do? Well, I'm a big believer in drug courts, I think drug courts are a much better option than imprisoning people. They should be given recovery, they should be held accountable. I believe that there are more programs that are cheaper and better. And I want to just quickly tell you about a program I visited in Reno, Nevada. And it was a program originally started for alcoholics—people that were found on the street and were picked up, taken to jail. A month later, they'd be on the street again, taken to jail, or maybe they'd end up being put into an ambulance, taken to the emergency room, maybe admitted. A month or two later, back on the street. So, a really great partnership between the county sheriff's office and Catholic charities said, "there's gotta be a better way. First of all, it's really expensive to jail and imprison people." So they built a facility that had small bedrooms, that had work to be done, that offered this option to people they were picking up, saying, "you can either go back to jail, back to—you know, the life you've had, or you can try this." And they got enough people to try it. They tested them three times a day to make sure they weren't cheating. And the sheriff said to me—he said, "you know—want to know the best thing about this?" He said, "because I can—I can justify this anywhere." He said the first year, the sheriff's office and the hospital and the jail saved $4 million, because they were no longer putting people in high, intensive places like jails and emergency rooms. Now they're moving on to drug addiction, because we've got to think differently about how to help people overcome the problems that they confront. And I just don't think jail is a place for people with substance abuse or mental health problems. And therefore, we need different approaches... [applause] ... that will be actually better and cheaper. So let's—let's try to figure out how we're gonna do that, too. This young man. QUESTION: Hi. I have a dad that works for people with developmental disabilities. And I have an uncle with autism. And I was wondering, what are some of the ways that you can help people with disabilities and people with special needs that need help? CLINTON: Great question. You know, thanks. [applause] Thank you dad for us, too, OK? Is your dad here? Thanks, Dad. Yeah. People with disabilities—you know, I was very proud that the United States became the first nation in the world to open schools to people with disabilities. And it was the—I worked on that, when I was with the Children's Defense Fund. And we went door to door, asking people, "do you have a school-age child who's not in school?" And we found a blind kids and kids in wheelchairs and kids with behavioral problems, and then gave all that data to the Congress, and the Congress acted, and schools were opened. And then the—the Americans With Disabilities Act was passed, another great accomplishment. A bipartisan accomplishment that really made a huge difference. [applause] So now we have to do more to make sure that we provide supportive housing, that we support families. The biggest concern people talk to me about when they have children with disabilities, and particularly with autism, is what happens when they are no longer there to take care of their children, and how will that work out. I'm actually rolling out a plan about autism in about a week, where I talk about all the different things... [applause] ... that we need to do to try to support families and people who are diagnosed as on the autism-spectrum disorders. How many of you know somebody with autism? Wow. Wow. Well, you know, the latest data from the Centers on Disease Control is that -you know, 1 out of 68 children have some feature that would place them on the autism spectrum. So that's something we need to deal with. So we're—we'll be addressing that. But I guess my bottom line would be we—we, as communities, need to support families and need to support people with disabilities so that they can go as far as their talent, their hard work, their skills will take them. And I think there are a lot of opportunities that we're just learning about that we can apply, and that I will talk about when I roll this out. I've just been told this is my last question. And so—oh, my goodness. This is totally—I should not have said that. This is totally, totally unfair. Oh my gosh. I—I ... QUESTION: Here! Here! [laughter] CLINTON: You—OK. So you've got promoters right here. This young man, right there? OK. You got a whole team here that is—is giving you a chance. Go ahead. Because I really do love to call on kids, because that's what this election is actually all about, is their future. [applause] QUESTION: My name is Relic Riley. I'm from Massachusetts, and my mother over there is complaining that she does not get much more money than my father. My mother is an... [laughter] [applause] My mother is an engineer. I meant teacher. My father's the engineer. And I—I think that my mother is working more harder than my... [laughter] [applause] I don't know my grammar. I just don't know my grammar. I think my mother isn't working much harder—is working more harder than my father, and she deserves to have more money. [laughter] Like, get more money than my father. [laughter] Because she's taking care of children, and—I just don't think it's fair. CLINTON: That is really so sweet. [applause] CLINTON: I—you have a great future as an advocate, and—look, I—I do think equal pay for equal work is still a problem. And I think the Paycheck Fairness Act, which I supported every year it came up when I was in the Senate, is really important to try to open up the—the pay arena to more transparency. Because right now, if you are doing a job, and you ask how much somebody else makes, you can be fired or retaliated against. And how are we ever gonna know that we get fair pay for—you know, not just women, although that's the biggest discrepancy, but particularly people who are in—you know, positions where it's hard to ask for more, because of their—you know, their working conditions. I had a young man here in New Hampshire tell me the reason he was supporting me is because I was in favor of equal pay. And when I asked him why, he said because he got his first grown-up adult job when he was 17, and he went to work in the same store where his mother had worked—that's how he got the job—and, his first pay period, brought his paycheck home, he showed his mother, and he watched her face fall. And he asked her why, and she said, "you're making more now than I am making after four years on the same job." And I said to him—I said, so what was the reason? I mean, how—how did this add up? He said, "you know, I tried to find out," and he said, "basically the manager said, 'well, we like to identify young men who can go far in the company, and so we want to give you the incentive to stay and maybe get into one of our training programs.'" And I really—this young man was very touching. He said, "but they never asked my mom, and she's much more organized than I am." [laughter] So I think that we still have problems, and if you deny those problems, you are denying the fastest way to increase incomes in America. And that is to make sure women are paid what they deserve in the job that they do. [applause] Thank you all, very much. Thank you. [applause]
MATTHEWS: Thank you, Madam Secretary. This is a big interview for us. Twenty-two years we've been doing this, and this is one of our big ones. I want to tell you—want to ask you about 12 questions tonight... CLINTON: OK. MATTHEWS: ... in two segments. I hope we get through them all. CLINTON: Thanks, Chris. MATTHEWS: Back in 2001, when we had 9/11 and you were a senator from New York, there was a different spirit in this country, including the Republican Party. You had a Republican president who went on the air and made it clear time and again this is not a battle between the West and the East. It's not about Muslims. It's about terrorism. And he did it so effectively. And now we have the leading candidate for the Republican nomination for president basically declaring a war on Muslims, saying they're not allowed in the country, the whole works. What do you make of this? CLINTON: Well, it's deeply distressing to me because I, as you know, well remember what happened after 9/11. And I have publicly given President Bush a lot of credit for the way that he set the tone and his entire administration echoed that. And now we need to have a sense of unity and purpose in combatting terrorism. I view it as a threat. I believe ISIS cannot be contained. It has to be defeated. But in order to do that, we need to work within our own country with Muslim Americans, so that what I'm hearing from the other side, is not only offensive and shameful, it's dangerous, counterproductive. And of course, we have to work with countries around the world in order to have a unified coalition against terrorism. And I've laid out very clearly what I think needs to be done, and it does include an American-led air alliance, and we're doing that. And we're supporting troops on the ground that are not Americans, special forces, but we do need to have the Kurds and the Arabs with special forces support, but not American combat troops. And we need to go after the arc of instability that fuels this terrorist ideology from North Africa to Pakistan, Afghanistan, and go after their funding and their foreign fighters and their very effective use of the Internet. But then the third pillar of my approach is we have to be safe here at home. We have to work with our friends and allies around the world. And I know you just got back from Israel. We have a lot of important work to do with countries from one end of the globe to the other. And we need to do it in alliance with Muslims here in America and elsewhere. And that's what I'm advocating. MATTHEWS: That's why I'm concerned about the Republican Party because this ethnic way of going at this situation, the way they seem to be going at the Muslim people, rather than the terrorists—this started—remember when the man whose name we dare not speak anymore, Donald Trump—I mean, the fact is, Trump started his sort of initiation in politics by saying the president of the United States was an illegal immigrant, he was probably a Muslim, he had a—he almost was an identity thief who created a notion of himself through a phony birth certificate, a phony birth announcement, and he was somehow—in fact, he used to say things—Trump would say things like, Nobody knew him in school, like he's some phantom impersonator, usurper. The Republican Party, every time he did that, said nothing. CLINTON: Right. MATTHEWS: Boehner, the speaker of the House, who was pretty much respected, wouldn't—isn't this a Republican Party problem, that started with Trump's first arrival on the world stage as some sort of politician, that it's ethnic with them? The president of the United States is one of the bad guys, one of the—if not the terrorists, one of the sneaker-in-ers who snuck into the country and assumed an identity. It's pretty sick. CLINTON: Well, it's very divisive and I think counterproductive. It undermines our values, who we are as a people. We are a nation of immigrants, which you know so well. And when I hear what's coming from the other side—and it's not just one person. There's an echo chamber there. And it's very troubling to me to try to divide and conquer, divide and conquer, and you know, a house divided against itself cannot stand. We need to be united. And we should not reward people who use inflammatory rhetoric, who use the kind of derogatory comments, whether it's about Muslims or Mexicans or women or people with disabilities, whoever it might be. That is not a sign of leadership. That's a sign of, you know, showmanship, of desperation that should be rejected roundly by the American people. MATTHEWS: By the way, you know, my grandmother spoke Irish when I grew up. I had an Irish accent in the house. CLINTON: Yes? MATTHEWS: Let me ask you about guns... CLINTON: I would have guessed that. MATTHEWS: Yes. Well, let's talk about guns because you've shown a lot of guts out there. And we know all the politics of guns. You know it. You ran with your husband. You ran before for president. There are states that have a real gun culture, including the state I grew up in, Pennsylvania. And you come from that part of the world, in a way. And you do come from [inaudible] Scranton... CLINTON: My father comes from, right. MATTHEWS: So you know there's a gun culture. How do you deal with that in Electoral College situations, where you've got to beat a Republican come next November, hopefully, for you? How do you—how do you make sure that the gun people don't emotionally say, Oh, she's an enemy of guns? CLINTON: Well, I think it's important to be focused on what we can do together, and that's why I do support comprehensive background checks and to close the gun show loophole and the on-line loophole and what's called the Charleston loophole... MATTHEWS: Right. CLINTON: ... and to prevent people who are on the no-fly list from getting guns. And in fact, what I am proposing is supported by a great majority of the American people and a significant majority of gun owners. Just today at Osage—you were here when I was speaking to the crowd—and then afterwards, I always take time so people can come up to me. Sometimes I do it publicly, a lot of times I do it privately, what's on their minds. And a man came up. He had a veterans cap on. And he said, you know, I'm a gun owner, he said, but I don't see any reason why we can't do more to keep guns out of the wrong hands. MATTHEWS: Yes. CLINTON: And he asked me, What can I do? I said, Well, please stand up against the NRA and the gun lobby. And please talk to your friends because what we are proposing is consistent with constitutional rights. But I agree with you, Chris, it's going to be part of the—you know, the political debate, and frankly, the battle in a lot of parts of our country going forward. MATTHEWS: Yes. CLINTON: But it is so important, when we lose 90 people a day, 33,000 Americans every year, and when you have met as many victims of gun violence as I have, when you've sat there and you've listened to their stories about losing a child, losing a husband, losing a parent—and I've met with the mothers who have lost children to gun violence by police hands, by, you know, more likely, gun and gang—deadly combination. I've just so many people, from Columbine to Sandy Hook. I just can't remain silent. And I think we are at a turning point. And what I said to the man here is, you know, There needs to be a rival organization to the NRA of responsible gun owners, who know that their hunting rights... MATTHEWS: Moms Demand Action. CLINTON: ... their collecting rights, all of that is not going to be affected. So I'm going to keep beating the drum, and I'm delighted that the president announced the actions he did today. MATTHEWS: Well, you're back in this fight. CLINTON: I am. MATTHEWS: You know, you were here eight years ago. Here you are again. CLINTON: I am. I am. MATTHEWS: And I do wonder sometimes at you sometimes, your ability—your... [laughter] To use the word "stamina," that hasn't been used correctly lately. You know, I'm a student of history, like you are, and I remember Nixon back in 1950 ran against Helen Gehagen Douglas. And she was one of the first women, liberal, to go out there... CLINTON: She is. MATTHEWS: ... progressives, to try to win a big seat. Right. And he used to—he said things like, You know, it's awfully hard on a woman. [laughter] He used these little shots at her. CLINTON: Yes. MATTHEWS: Here we are, two thirds of a century later... CLINTON: Right. MATTHEWS: ... and the leading Republican candidate is out saying that you don't have the stamina, the strength—is this sexism? Is it what it is? CLINTON: Well, you know, I have a new year's resolution... MATTHEWS: I know. I've heard this... [crosstalk] CLINTON: I will not respond to his, you know... MATTHEWS: What does it say about the Republican... CLINTON: ... personal attacks. MATTHEWS: Well, let me try to phrase it—I feel like a lawyer now. How do I rephrase? [laughter] How does the Republican Party deal with the fact they're voting for this guy, that 35 percent of people are supporting him, and even though he's making these charges, which a lot of people would say are—why would he go after your stamina, rather than Bill's stamina or George McGovern's stamina or anybody else's, except you're a woman? CLINTON: Well, look... MATTHEWS: He's older than you. CLINTON: That's true. MATTHEWS: I'm older than you. CLINTON: That's true! MATTHEWS: My stamina's all right. CLINTON: That's true. MATTHEWS: So why is he doing this? CLINTON: Well, why does he do whatever he does? I can only tell you what I hear from people, and what I hear from people is really about their lives and their future. I mean, lot of this back and forth that goes on... MATTHEWS: I know, but... CLINTON: ... in the political... MATTHEWS: ... he's winning. CLINTON: ... universe—well, we'll see. We'll see. We haven't had a single caucus. We haven't had a single primary. The Republicans will have to choose whoever they decide to be their nominee, and I'm looking forward, if I am so fortunate to be the nominee, to run against whoever they put up. I'm just going to keep working really hard, like right out there today, you know, getting people to caucus for me, connecting them up with my great organizers. I have an amazing team here... MATTHEWS: OK... CLINTON: ... and we're just going to work as hard as we can to make my case. MATTHEWS: He ain't going to stop. He did an interview with my colleague, Joe Scarborough, this morning. It's going to air tomorrow morning. He's out there again saying he's going after your family. He said it's fair to go after them. CLINTON: Well, I just... MATTHEWS: He's just going to keep doing it. CLINTON: Well... MATTHEWS: He says you're an enabler. He's making it personal with you. CLINTON: Well, he can say whatever he wants to say. I'm going to keep talking about what people talk to me about... MATTHEWS: OK. CLINTON: ... and what they talk to me about is, What will you do about prescription drug prices? MATTHEWS: By the way, you're good on that one. That's so true. CLINTON: Well, it's unbelievable what's happening to people! MATTHEWS: Everybody's taking drugs now, and you need—if you have diabetes, like me, or somebody, everybody needs it—if your parents died of Alzheimer's—you talked about that out here. CLINTON: Yes. MATTHEWS: These are real things. CLINTON: These are real things that people talk to me about. MATTHEWS: OK... CLINTON: And I'm going to be a president who does the big stuff that gets in the headlines, that, you know, you and other analysts and reporters talk about, and I'm going to do the stuff that keeps people awake at night... MATTHEWS: OK... CLINTON: ... like, you know, making sure they can afford their prescription drugs. MATTHEWS: I want to say something nice about you. CLINTON: Oh, please! [laughter] MATTHEWS: No, I have to. I'm personally responsible. Back when you had all the difficulty in the second administration of President Clinton, your husband, and you had a difficult situation you had to go through—and you went through it, and I think you were completely stunned by it initially, and then you had to deal with it as you became aware of what was going on. And what did you do? You didn't cry. You didn't go away and say, Gee, whiz, this is terrible, why am I going through this? What you did is you went out and you acted like a champion for Democrats. You went around the country campaigning like mad. You were the real banner carrier for the Democratic Party in '98. And something interesting happened. An epiphany happened. Somehow, out there campaigning in New York for Chuck Schumer and other people, you said something to yourself. You said, You know what? Something good can come out of this for me. I can become a hero to people. And you ran for the Senate from New York, when a lot of people were critics of you, would have loved you to have fallen on your face. They would have eaten it up if you'd gone down in a ditch up in New York and lost—because at the time, you were running against Rudy... CLINTON: That's right. MATTHEWS: ... who looked unbeatable. CLINTON: That's right. MATTHEWS: And you had the guts to go out there. What made you do it? Because there's a lot of women watching right now. Half my viewers are women. And they want to hear what's it take for a woman to just rise out of a situation which is pretty bad and come out of it and say, You know what? I can rise to this occasion. How did you do it? CLINTON: Well, you know, that's a great question because I... MATTHEWS: Do you know the answer? CLINTON: I didn't have any sense that all of this would happen. I really didn't. MATTHEWS: Well, New York came and fell in love with you and said, We like you. CLINTON: And—and... MATTHEWS: Come up here, live up here, be our senator. CLINTON: They did, and Please run. And I said, no, no, no. I said no, no... MATTHEWS: Charlie Rangel...[crosstalk] CLINTON: Yes, and so many others. And I absolutely said no. And I'll tell you what changed my mind, and it was maybe something that other women can relate to because I was in the news, like, Would she or wouldn't she, and I kept saying, I'm not going to. And I was first lady going up to do an event in New York City to promote women in athletics, and Billie Jean King and great athletes were there. MATTHEWS: She's great. CLINTON: And so I was introduced by this young woman. I think she was, like, the volleyball or basketball captain. And I came up and shook her hand, and you know, I said, Great job. She leaned over to me and she said, Dare to compete, Mrs. Clinton, dare to compete. And I thought, Wow. You know, I have encouraged so many women and girls to compete on the athletic fields, in academics... MATTHEWS: Yes. CLINTON: ... in politics, in business, and I'm being asked to compete. And it... MATTHEWS: And stick your neck out. CLINTON: And stick my neck out. And it is scary! It is. MATTHEWS: It's different than supporting your spouse, isn't it. CLINTON: Totally different. ?I mean, I had the hardest time when I started saying, I am me. I'm happy to say, you know, my husband this, or candidate X or Y, but to stand up there and be the person out there... MATTHEWS: Wow. CLINTON: And it is a big challenge. And I think because, you know, we're coming into our own as women in all walks of life, but still, there's something a little bit daunting about... MATTHEWS: Yes. CLINTON: ... holding yourself out, asking people to support you, to give you money, to vote for you. It's hard. MATTHEWS: And you know who went through that? Another New York senator, Bobby Kennedy. CLINTON: Yes.  [crosstalk] MATTHEWS: ... his brother's brother. CLINTON: I remember reading about that. MATTHEWS: And then all of a sudden, he had to be the guy and stuck his neck out. Anyway, we're going to come back and talk about... CLINTON: OK. MATTHEWS: ... you because I—the way I look at politics—and you called me an analyst. I like that. I'm an analyst. And I look at this race for president, 2016, which we're now in, and really, that list is closing. And a guy at Georgetown, a professor, once said, there's a difference between free will and free choice. Free choice means there's a limit number of choices. And it looks like there's a limited number of choices for the president of the United States coming in 2016, and you're one of them. We'll be right back and talk about Hillary Clinton as the possibly the next—in fact, the first-ever woman commander-in-chief of the United States. [commercial break] MATTHEWS: Madam Secretary, you may have a new title if this campaign is successful. You have to win the primary. You got to beat Bernie. You got to beat Martin O'Malley. But if all that happens, then you have to beat whoever on the Republican side, you could be the first woman commander-in-chief. And this is all happening, perhaps coincidentally, or maybe culturally, when Ashton Carter, the secretary of defense, has just made it clear now that all combat roles are open to women. This is something unique in our history. Now, maybe every woman doesn't want these jobs. CLINTON: Right. MATTHEWS: But these jobs are now open. You can go out there and be infantry. You can go out there, you know, with a knife in your teeth and you can go swinging on ropes into whatever valley you got to go kill people in. Women are going to be doing that, just like in Israel, where I just was. How's our country going to adapt to that? And is it important culturally for us to have women in this combat role? CLINTON: I think it's important to open up all roles to women, but I also agree with Secretary Carter that you have to have standards. And women and men have to meet those standards because we're talking literally life or death. So I am... MATTHEWS: You mean like climbing ropes and things like that. CLINTON: Absolutely. Absolutely. And how much weight you can carry because maybe one of your, you know, fellow soldiers will need that one day. And so I am a huge supporter of women being able to break whatever glass ceilings are holding them back... MATTHEWS: If they can physically handle it. CLINTON: They've got to be able—and mentally. MATTHEWS: Yes. CLINTON: You know, it—physically, mentally, you have to be prepared. You have to be ready. And I think that you're right, not every woman's going to want to do that, and some of the women who want to do it are not going to qualify. But we just had a few women pass Ranger school, which is an enormously... MATTHEWS: Yes. CLINTON: ... competitive, grueling experience. It was just less than a handful, but they proved they could do it. And from everything I know, nobody cut any slack for them. They did it. And in fact, after it was over, they interviewed some of the, you know, male competitors... MATTHEWS: Right. CLINTON: ... to go through Ranger school, and these guys said, You know, after a while, I didn't even notice. I mean, yes, you're right, she was a woman. She carried her weight. She pulled her own. MATTHEWS: Yes. CLINTON: That's what you want because I think about the job that I'm applying for, and it really is a job interview that I'm doing all over America. MATTHEWS: Commander-in-chief. CLINTON: President and commander-in-chief. And I feel ready to fulfill both roles. I think it's important that the next president get the economy working for everybody so that we don't keep having the deck stacked for those on the top. We've got to stay safe at home and strong in the world. And we've got to deal with these problems that keep people up at night, I like to say. MATTHEWS: Yes. CLINTON: I feel particularly well prepared to do every part of the job. And when it comes to being commander-in-chief, my eight years as a senator from New York after 9/11, my four years as secretary of state, my many, many hours in the Situation Room, I know how hard these choices are. MATTHEWS: You were there when Osama was killed. CLINTON: I was. You know, I was one of the very few people that was brought in to advise the president. MATTHEWS: Yes. CLINTON: And it was the most... MATTHEWS: You said, Go for it. CLINTON: I did. I did, you know, after, as I say, sitting through hours of meetings, listening to the intelligence being presented, listening to Admiral McRaven, who was then the head of special forces, talk about, you know, what special forces could do, looking at other options... MATTHEWS: Yes. CLINTON: ... like a cruise missile or a Predator—armed predator, and recommending to the president that we go with the Navy SEAL option, and then being there that day, watching part of the operation on a video screen in the Situation Room, just holding my breath literally through the whole thing. I know how hard these choices are. And I know what a cool, deliberative head needs to be finally making them. MATTHEWS: Yes. CLINTON: I have learned so much, Chris, over the last years. I feel very ready. MATTHEWS: You have the—you know who said you had the temperament for it? Bill Clinton, which I thought was interesting, because he would know your temperament. CLINTON: Yes. Yes. MATTHEWS: Let me ask about your sort of position on this. You voted for the Iraq War authorization, if not the war. Bernie Sanders is out there still hitting you on that one. Of course, he's coming from the left on you. You have got Rand Paul out there, who is a libertarian and a bit of a—I would say a bit of a dove, saying that you would be more for regime change, that you would start the next war. CLINTON: Yes. Well, he's wrong. He is wrong. MATTHEWS: They're positioning you as to the hawkish side of Obama. CLINTON: Yes. Right. MATTHEWS: How—where would you—you read Fred Hiatt of "The Washington Post" the other day... CLINTON: Yes. MATTHEWS: ... position you as someone, I thought, a notch to the hawkish side, because he said you were for a no-fly zone in Syria. You were for ground troops, but not necessarily our troops, but some... CLINTON: Right. MATTHEWS: Because you need a ground component to tell the bombs where to—to tell them where to drop the bombs. CLINTON: Right. Exactly. Right. MATTHEWS: Does that make you more hawkish than the president? CLINTON: Well, I think most of what I have been advocating, the president is now doing. MATTHEWS: But not that. CLINTON: Well, we have special forces on the ground. He sent them. MATTHEWS: But no-fly zone? CLINTON: But the no-fly zone, for me, was an idea that I developed with some advisers. MATTHEWS: Is it dangerous with the Russians flying around there? CLINTON: Well, of course you would have to have the Russians to sign off on it. MATTHEWS: Yes. CLINTON: And we were making progress. I don't know what the result will be of the conflict now between Saudi Arabia and Iran. But, you know, for the last four years, we have been pushing to try to get a peace conference going. And I give Secretary Kerry credit for getting everybody agreeing to be in the same room. I saw the no-fly zone as leverage. Number one, if we could get the Russians on board, because we would have to—and I think we could, if we were to say, look, we need safe zones. If we're going to be operating on the ground, advising the Kurds, the Arabs, we need safe zones. We also need safe places for civilians, so that they're not refugees leaving Iraq and Syria. And it can be done. It can be done in a way that doesn't create more problems. But now I'm—I'm very supportive of what the president's doing. We're making some progress. And I have been calling for that, calling for reconstituting the approach toward the sheiks, the Sunni sheiks in Anbar Province, getting them back into the fight, so to speak. MATTHEWS: Yes. CLINTON: They are. Rebuilding the Iraqi army. MATTHEWS: Yes. That's what we need. CLINTON: We need that. MATTHEWS: We need the Sunnis to retake their land, because the Shia can't do it. CLINTON: We need the—well, the still largely Shia Iraqi army took Ramadi, but with Sunni troops. MATTHEWS: Army. They have to turn it over to Sunnis. CLINTON: And then turn it over. MATTHEWS: Yes. CLINTON: This makes all the sense in the world to me. So, I view myself as being a realist, being practical, and in accordance with our values, because I think it's very important that we get back to promoting our values and pursuing our interests and protecting our security. If the United States doesn't do that on our own behalf or on behalf of our friends in Europe and Asia and the Middle East, no one will. So this is not a choice. It's not a luxury. It's a necessity. MATTHEWS: OK. Last question. We're running out of time. I want to try to help you for this audience tonight, our audience, locate yourself politically in this country. [laughter] Now, we have Trump out there and we have Bernie out here. Now, Bernie calls himself a socialist. Nobody uses a derogatory term anymore. It's—he loves to have that label. He's never ran as a Democrat. He runs against Democrats up there in Vermont. You're a Democrat. I would say you're a pretty typical Democrat in the tradition of the Democratic Party, and Humphrey, the rest of them, Scoop—not even Scoop. I would say Mondale. You're somewhere in there. What's the difference between a socialist and a Democrat? CLINTON: Well, you have to... MATTHEWS: Is that a question you want to answer, or would you rather not?  [crosstalk] CLINTON: Well, you would have to ask...  [crosstalk] MATTHEWS: Well, see, I'm asking you. You're a Democrat. He's a socialist. Would you like somebody to call you a socialist? I wouldn't like somebody calling me a socialist. CLINTON: Well, but I'm not one. I'm not one. MATTHEWS: OK. Well, what's the difference between a socialist and a Democrat? Last question. CLINTON: Well, I can tell you what I am. I am a progressive Democrat. I am a progressive Democrat... MATTHEWS: How is that different than a socialist? CLINTON: ... who likes to get things done and who believes that we're better off in this country when we're trying to solve problems together, getting people to work together. There will always be strong feelings, and I respect that, from, you know, the far right, the far left, libertarians, whatever—whoever it might be. We need to get people working together. We have got to get the economy fixed. We have got to get all of our problems, you know, really tackled. And that's what I want to do. MATTHEWS: I know. Yes, I think the difference is—and Debbie Wasserman Schultz wouldn't answer the question either I asked her, because I know, politically, you have to keep together. The center-left and the left has to work together. I know all that. Let me ask you about working together. You gave a nice speech here today in Osage about the need to work—I wrote a book about Tip and Reagan. When it comes to an urgent issue, they can find a solution. CLINTON: Right. MATTHEWS: Obama—I have always supported the president on his philosophy, on his general approach to a lot of things. But he doesn't seem to like the company of fellow politicians. He just doesn't. He doesn't want to hang out with them, play cards with them at midnight. Maybe he did it in Springfield. For some reason, he doesn't want to do it in Washington. You seem to like the company of people like Lindsey Graham and John McCain. And you can find a way, go on CODELs with them and getting along with them. And it seems to me that is an important part of life, that you have to find—you were talking about Tom DeLay here. And I get along with Tom DeLay. Even though you disagree 180 on something, you have got to find—Congress means coming together. CLINTON: Yes. Well, your book is a perfect example of... MATTHEWS: "Tip and the Gipper." CLINTON: Exactly. And, look, there may be... MATTHEWS: You read it? CLINTON: I did. MATTHEWS: Thank you. CLINTON: I don't—I don't want you to know that, but I did. MATTHEWS: But you have just told me that. I like this. You're throwing me an encomium here. [laughter] CLINTON: No, because I—because I am always looking for ways that we work together. MATTHEWS: Yes. CLINTON: And it used to be easier in the past. MATTHEWS: It did. CLINTON: I think that the polarization has gotten so acute now, and so you have to work even harder. But relationships are the beginning of everything. MATTHEWS: So, you could imagine, if you're fortunate to become the next president of the United States, having people over to the White House, not going to the Jefferson Hotel for an hour-and-a-half, but actually having people come over and talk it over? CLINTON: Yes, well... MATTHEWS: By the way, you're an empty nester, so it's easier for you. CLINTON: It is easier. MATTHEWS: Yes. CLINTON: It is much easier. And, look, everybody has strengths that they bring to this position. And, obviously... MATTHEWS: Is schmoozing one of yours? CLINTON: Well, I think that I like it, because I am looking for that common ground somewhere. MATTHEWS: Yes. Yes. CLINTON: And I don't think that you get it just on the first try. MATTHEWS: Yes. CLINTON: You have got to listen to people. You got to get to know people. You got to look for ways that you can reach across the aisle. MATTHEWS: Yes. CLINTON: I'm not saying it's going to be magic, because part of what's happened—and it is different from when Tip O'Neill and President Reagan were working together—it is so much more gerrymandered. It's so much more influenced... MATTHEWS: I know. You don't have any Republicans in a Democratic district. CLINTON: Not anymore. MATTHEWS: You don't have any Democrats in a Republican district. CLINTON: And so people don't feel like they have to make deals. MATTHEWS: OK. I have been telling people for years that, when they're with you personally, you're very different and you're very easy to talk to. [laughter] I think, watching you the last 20 minutes, they get the point. CLINTON: Thank you. MATTHEWS: I think this has been a great interview. And I appreciate you for coming on and giving us the time. CLINTON: Thank you very much, Chris. Great to see you. MATTHEWS: Thank you, Madam Secretary.
DICKERSON: We're going to get right to our lead guest, former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, who is in Chappaqua, New York, this morning. Good morning, Secretary Clinton. I want to start with politics. We're going to talk about a lot today, but let's start with politics. A new NBC/"Wall Street Journal"/Marist poll says in Iowa it's 48-45, you over Sanders. You were once way ahead. So, what's happening? CLINTON: Oh, John, you know these polls go up, they go down. I stay pretty focused, as I think we all should, on what we have to do to build on the progress of the Obama administration, but go even further. And that's why I have outlined a very significant agenda to raise wages and to take on the gun lobby and to be making America safe in every way that I can. And those are some of the differences that I have with my primary opponents, and certainly very deep differences with all the Republicans running. DICKERSON: This week, another batch of your e-mails were released by the State Department. One of them is a back-and-forth between you and a staffer about a secure fax that won't come through. And you directed him to -- quote -- "turn into non-paper with no identifying heading and send nonsecure." Aren't you ordering him to violate the laws on handling classified material there? CLINTON: No, not at all. And as the State Department said just this week, that did not happen. And it never would have happened, because that's just not the way I treated classified information. Headings are not classification notices. And so, oftentimes, we're trying to get the best information we can. And, obviously, what I'm asking for is whatever can be transmitted, if it doesn't come through secure, to be transmitted on the unclassified system. So, no, there is nothing to that, like so much else that has been talked about in the last year. DICKERSON: So, in no instance -- what is striking about that particular e-mail is it suggests you were very facile with how to do this, this process. You knew the instructions about how to get around the restrictions for sending classified information. So you're saying there was never an instance, any other instance in which you did that? CLINTON: No. And it wasn't sent. So, I think this is another instance where what is common practice -- namely, look, I need information. I had some points I had to make. And I was looking for a secure fax that could give me the whole picture. But, oftentimes, there's a lot of information that isn't at all classified. So, whatever information can appropriately transmitted unclassified often was. That's true for every agency in the government and who everybody does business with the government. But the important point here is, I had great confidence, because I had worked with Jake Sullivan for years. He is the most meticulous, careful person you could possibly do business with. And he knew exactly what was and wasn't appropriate. And, in fact, as the State Department has said, there was no transmission of any classified information. So, it's another effort by people looking for something to throw against the wall, as you said in the beginning of the program, to see what sticks. But there's no there there. DICKERSON: Well, this one is a little different, since the FBI is investigating this specific question of whether a classification was meddled with. Let me ask you about another e-mail in this batch, which was one in which you seemed to express surprise that somebody e-mailed on their non-State Department personal e-mail, which is what you were doing. Why was that a surprise to you? CLINTON: Well, I e-mailed two people on their government accounts, because I knew that all of that would be part of the government system. And, indeed, the vast majority of all my e-mails are in the government system. So, that's how I conducted the business. I was very clear about e-mailing anything having to do with business to people on their government accounts. DICKERSON: On gun control this week, you have been pretty tough on Bernie Sanders, specifically on the question of legal protection to gun manufacturers. He has now said that he would be interested in looking to changing the law to allow -- to go after gun manufacturers who act irresponsibly. So, isn't that what you want? CLINTON: No, that's not what I want. And that's not what the country wants. And that's not what President Obama called for. And I think he has been consistently refusing to say that he would vote to repeal this absolute immunity from any kind of responsibility or liability. It's the only industry in our country where we have given that kind of carte blanche to do whatever you want to do with no fear of legal consequences. You know, President Obama and I and Senator Sanders were all in the Senate at the same time. Two of us voted against what the NRA says was the most important piece of legislation in 20 years for the gun lobby. Senator Sanders voted with them, and through this morning has been unwilling to join the president and me in saying that this should be repealed. That has to be the effort that we all are behind. And he often says, well, look, I'm from Vermont and it's different. It's not like being in New York City. Well, in fact, the other senator from Vermont, Senator Leahy, voted with President Obama and myself. So, I think that the excuses and efforts by Senator Sanders to avoid responsibility for this vote, which the NRA hailed as the most important in 20 years, points up a clear difference. And it's a difference that Democratic voters in our primary can take into account. Who is going to really stand up to the gun lobby, try to deal with the scourge of gun violence that takes 90 people's lives a day? I'm pretty clear on what I will do. And I support and will work hard to implement what the president has been advocating. DICKERSON: On Senator Sanders' response, this idea that he represents a state which there are lot of gun owners, you were a senator. You -- aren't you sympathetic to that? You said you represented Wall Street, and that's what shaped your views on certain Wall Street policy. And you have suggested that, as president, you would be different than you did as senator, when you were representing a state with a constituency. CLINTON: Well... DICKERSON: So, why isn't it fair for Bernie Sanders to say, as president, I would be different than I would as a senator representing a state with a lot of gun owners? CLINTON: Well, you know, I think you have really mixed up two important issues here. I have been consistent on gun lobby restrictions. In fact, I supported the Brady Bill. Senator Sanders voted against it five times. So, there is a very clear difference. And when it comes to Wall Street, yes, I represented New York. And I was proud to do so. And I took on Wall Street. I'm the person who came out against derivatives. I'm the person who came out calling for restrictions on CEO pay, which, thankfully, got into the Dodd- Frank bill. I'm the person who went to Wall Street and actually confronted them in 2007. I called them out on the role they were playing in the mortgage market. So, I do have a history of taking on what I consider to be the abuses that come from any industry, including Wall Street. And I will continue to do so as president. And the proposal that I have put forth about how we rein in the excesses of Wall Street, so we never again face what we did in 2008, has been judged as being more comprehensive, tougher, more effective by Barney Frank, by Sherrod Brown, my friend from Ohio who leads the banking efforts in the Senate, and by Paul Krugman. So, I have plan that will go after not just the big banks, because Dodd-Frank has given us the tools to do a lot of that, but to go after the so-called shadow banking industry. DICKERSON: Right. CLINTON: And I think I'm well-prepared. I know what needs to be done. It's kind of like Nixon going to China, John. DICKERSON: All right, Senator, let me ask you about a general election opponent you may face. That is Donald Trump. You got into a pretty ugly exchange. You charged that he -- you charged him with sexism, and then he put out an Instagram video of your husband and Monica Lewinsky. Your reaction to that? CLINTON: Well, if he wants to engage in personal attacks from the past, that's his prerogative. You know, so be it. I'm going to draw the distinctions between where I stand and where he stands when it comes to equal pay for women, raising the minimum wage, which affects two-thirds of the women, who are the ones receiving the minimum wage, protecting a woman's right to make the most personal health care decisions. That's why I'm so proud to have the endorsement of the Planned Parenthood Action Fund that I received today in New Hampshire, because I'm going to fight as hard as I can against any efforts to defund Planned Parenthood, something that he supports. So, there are very clear distinctions. He can say whatever he wants to about me. Let the voters judge that. But I am not going to let him or any of the other Republicans rip away the progress that women have made. It's been too hard-fought-for. And I'm going to stand up and make it clear there's a huge difference between us. DICKERSON: Secretary Clinton, what do you say, though, to those even in your own party who say that -- a discussion of that portion of your husband's career is fair game to talk about in an election? CLINTON: Well, it's been fair game going back to the Republicans for some years. They can do it again if they want to. That can be their choice as to how to run in this campaign. Didn't work before. It won't work again, because it is what people are focused on, not for the past, but for the future. What are we going to do to get wages rising? What are we going to do to create more good jobs? What are we going to do keep rights? What are we going to do to make sure that the Supreme Court has people on it who will defend women's rights, who will defend marriage equality, who will defend voter rights? So, I can't run anybody else's campaign. They can say whatever they want. More power to them. I think it's a dead end, blind alley for them, but let them go. I'm going to talk about the differences between us, because I think that's what Americans care about. DICKERSON: Secretary Clinton, I'm afraid we're at a dead end ourselves and out of time. [laughter] DICKERSON: Thanks so much for being with us. CLINTON: Thanks. Let's continue the conversation, John. DICKERSON: See you out there.
CAMEROTA: Secretary Clinton, thanks so much for sitting down with us here in Iowa. CLINTON: Thank you, Alisyn. CAMEROTA: We are in Ames, Iowa -- CLINTON: Yes. CAMEROTA:—where the temperature as we speak is one degree. CLINTON: Uh-hm. CAMEROTA: And I know that you have been going to countless campaign events here and I'm wondering when you get up in the morning in Iowa if there are ever times you question your life choices? CLINTON: Absolutely, no. You know, I grew up in Chicago. I'm used to cold weather. It doesn't bother me. In fact, I'm somewhat reassured that there is a real winter, that we are actually seeing snow and lower temperatures. But I get up every day whether I'm in Iowa, in New Hampshire, wherever I am in the country and I really look forward to the day because I find the opportunity to go out and listen to people, hear their stories, give them my views about what I think the next president should do very energizing and very, you know, reinvigorating all the time. CAMEROTA: So, let's talk about the tightening race between you and Bernie Sanders. Bernie Sanders is speaking to reporters on Monday night here in Iowa. And he said that your campaign is in, quote, "serious trouble." Is that how you feel? CLINTON: Not at all. In fact, I have always known that if you are going to run to be president, particularly in the Democratic Party, it's a long, hard, challenging road. And so I've been in these elections before. They always tighten up as people begin to make up their minds, as they look at the candidates, totally predictable. I feel really, really good about the campaign organization that I have. A caucus is different from a primary. It takes a lot of intensive work to convince people to come out on a cold Monday night, spend a couple of hours in order to stand up for your candidate, but I'm asking Iowans if they'll stand up for me on caucus night. I will be standing up for them all through my presidency. CAMEROTA: There is a new Quinnipiac poll out just about one hour ago in which Bernie Sanders is now beating you in Iowa. It is 49 percent to 44 percent. It is the first time that this has happened that he's been beating you in Iowa since September. We are 20 days out. Does he have more momentum than you? CLINTON: Well, the funny thing Alisyn is, after that poll came out about an hour later there was a PPP poll where I was leading him by the same margin about six points up. I don't pay any attention to this. I don't feel that it's a good reflection about who will actually come out on caucus night. I can only tell you that the energy, the enthusiasm, the excitement of my volunteers, my organizers, the voters who come, who sign up on commit to caucus cards is just building. That's my experience. So I'll let people poll and try to figure out who is going to show up. I'm looking at people who are showing up, making up their minds and trying to, you know, convince them to come out and caucus for me. CAMEROTA: Why don't you feel that the polls are good reflection of what's going to happen in the caucus? CLINTON: Because they are so unpredictable. And it's gotten increasingly difficult to poll. And I think you would have to add a degree of difficulty to polling for a caucus. So, that's been my experience. I've watched this a long time. I've had a prior election where I campaigned in Iowa. So, I just put that aside. I'll let pundits and others worry about who's up and who's down. I just get up every day like we were saying, going out there, making my case, drawing the contrast because I have the highest regard for my two opponents, but there are real differences. And we need a spirited debate. Because after the first of the year, a lot more people start paying attention. And now I know it's, you know, the make or break time, people make up their minds. CAMEROTA: Bernie Sanders is also winning in New Hampshire. Not surprising. He is from a neighboring state. Have you considered what would happen if he wins in Iowa and New Hampshire what your plan is? CLINTON: I don't think about that. I'm going to do everything I can to win as bigger margin as possible in the caucus and then go to the primary. But this is a national campaign. We've been organizing in South Carolina, in Nevada, a lot of the March 1st states, the March 15th states. Remember, I campaigned all the way into June last time. And I have always thought that given the unpredictability and the, you know, changes in people's concerns going into this election, that we wouldn't know exactly how the outcome would be for, you know, a couple of cycles of these primaries and caucuses. So, I'm going to do my best to convince more Iowans to come out and caucus for me. And even though as you say, Senator Sanders as a neighbor and a neighbor never lost in New Hampshire, I'm going to take that challenge on and do the best I can to get people in New Hampshire to support me, as well. CAMEROTA: Vice President Joe Biden offered his thoughts to CNN on why he thinks Bernie Sanders is resonating. He said that he thinks it's about Senator Sanders' positions on income inequality. And the Vice President said, quote, "It's relatively new for Hillary to talk about that. That's been Bernie's. No one questions Bernie's authenticity on those issues." What's your reaction? CLINTON: Well, the Vice President who I deeply respect and regard as a friend, went on to say as I recall. But, you know, Hillary Clinton has a lot of very good economic policies that are thoughtful and on and on. Look, I have been working toward closing the gaps between people, poor people and well-off people primarily all my adult life. I went to work for the Children's Defense Fund. I helped to reform the education system in Arkansas. I was a legal services lawyer defending poor people. I went to work to try to make sure that we got health care in the beginning of my husband's administration because of so many people who were left out and were uninsured. I have been on this issue in many different ways. How do we make education more equal? How do we make health care more equal? Of course that's tied to income equality, but there is also a broader range of issues that I have a long record of addressing. And when I was in the Senate I took on corporate executive pay. A lot of the abuses that I thought were there. I took on these derivatives and credit default swaps that contributed to the collapse of the economy and the great recession. I stood up to Wall Street. I called them out. So I have a very long record. I have a broader agenda. It's not the only thing I talk about because I think you have to view equality of opportunity and how we deliver that in the 21st Century for many different perspectives and that's what I tried to do. CAMEROTA: And since you have been devoting much of your career to talking about this, why do you think the Vice President would say, it's more in Bernie's wheelhouse and it's about his authenticity? CLINTON: Oh, I don't know. But you know, I have a lot of regard for the vice president. And I think today he clarified what he said and said he was talking about me when I was Secretary of State. Well, when I was Secretary of State, I couldn't talk about domestic policy. There is an unwritten rule, you do not meddle in domestic policy when you are secretary of state or for that matter, secretary of defense. So yes, for four years, despite a long career both in and out of public service where I have been relentless in talking about these issues, there were four years when I did not. I talked about how we were going to get Iran to the negotiating table and try to prevent them from getting a nuclear weapon, how we're going to, you know, deal with a rising China, what we're going to do about women's rights, something that goes to the heart of inequality. So, I had a different agenda because I had a different job. CAMEROTA: So, you didn't take Biden's comments as a slight? CLINTON: No. Not at all. CAMEROTA: OK. You are introducing your tax plan. One of the headlines is that you would impose a four percent surcharge on incomes over $5 million. And I believe that that would raise about $150 billion over ten years. Does that go far enough in addressing income inequality? CLINTON: Well, we've got a variety of proposals. Not only the four percent surcharge which I call the fair share surcharge. The so-called Buffet Rule which would have a minimum tax rate for people making more than $1 million, limiting deductions to 28 percent with a charitable exception. Going after a lot of the subsidies that, for example, still subsidize the oil and gas industry about $6 billion a year while we have to move toward a clean renewable energy future. So I have put forth plans, paid family leave, tuition, debt-free tuition for public colleges. Capping prescription drug costs and much more. And it would cost about $100 billion a year, all of which I pay for. In contrast, Senator Sanders has some very big ideas, but he hasn't yet told anybody how he would pay for them. And he had promised that he would roll out his tax plans before the Iowa caucus on February 1st. Well, if you wait too long, nobody will have a chance to see them or analyze them. And so I am very clear about what I would do and how I would pay for it. CAMEROTA: Another point of conflict between you and Senator Sanders is on gun policy. CLINTON: Uh-hm. CAMEROTA: We just watched this very emotional event this morning. CLINTON: Yes. CAMEROTA: That you were involved in where this mom who lost two children -- CLINTON: Right -- CAMEROTA:—to gun violence got up and spoke. And it was really heartbreaking to hear her. It sounds like she lost her children to criminals. CLINTON: Yes. CAMEROTA: So, how would you stop that? CLINTON: This is a very big difference in this campaign. Because as you saw, I received the Brady campaign endorsement today and both the woman Delfin Cherry who introduced us to the stage and the head of the Brady campaign had lost family members. It was really hard standing up there because I have held the hands of and listened to countless people who have lost family members to gun violence. And I agree completely with the President about us having to take action now. We lose on an average 90 people a day. It has to stop, Alisyn. I've been in this campaign advocating for comprehensive background checks, closing the gun show loophole, closing the online loophole, closing what's called the Charleston loophole. You know, there was a loophole, my opponent voted for it, Senator Sanders, that at the end of three days, business days, you get that gun whether they have finished the background check or not. The killer in Charleston who bought that gun, if there had just been a little more time, it would have been discovered he should not have been able to buy the gun because he had a federal record. We have saved a lot of lives. I can't put an exact number on it. But because of the Brady bill which Senator Sanders voted against five times, more than two million people, the Brady campaign says, 2.4 million purchasers have been stopped from buying guns. So, we are talking about violent criminals. We are talking about domestic abusers. We are talking about the dangerously mentally ill. We are even talking about terrorists because the Republicans won't close the loophole so that people on the no fly zone can buy guns. I feel passionately about this. And the cumulation from Sandy Hook to the community college in Oregon, the fact that we have so many mass killings in the last few years, I think it certainly motivated the President, and I am so proud to support him and I want to make this a voting issue in this campaign. [break] CAMEROTA: I want to talk about an issue Donald Trump wanted to make an issue in this campaign, that is—are allegations from your husband's past. He is going further actually than that. He is making it about you. He is saying that you are an enabler of bad behavior and of sexual assault. What's your response to Donald Trump? CLINTON: I have no response. I'm going to let him say whatever he wants to say. He can run his campaign however he wishes. I'm going to keep talking about what the next president will have to do starting January 20th, 2017. I have deep disagreements with what he's proposing. His tax plans would cut trillions of dollars of taxes from the wealthy and corporations. He doesn't believe in equal pay. He thinks that American workers are already making too much. So, I'm going to draw the contrast with him that I think the American people are interested in seeing. CAMEROTA: But when someone accuses you of being an enabler of sexual assault, don't you need to respond to it? I mean, particularly since this is an issue you wanted to talk about on the campaign trail. Can't this sexual assault—you say survivors need to be believed and they need to be heard. So, when he's accusing you of doing something that is the antithesis of what you want to talk about, don't you need to address it? CLINTON: I'm going to let the American voters decide what's relevant and what's not relevant in their decision as to who they're going to support. CAMEROTA: I have a few more questions. Donald Trump was on "The Tonight Show" and asked about the possibility of you two running against each other, if that's how this all plays out in November. He said that would be, quote, "an amazing thing." [laughter] CLINTON: Yes, it would be amazing. I would look forward to it. Look, I think this is serious business. Campaigns always have some great stories and great characters. That's part of the political process. This is really serious business, who the next president is. We are either going to build on the progress that we've made or we're going to see it ripped away. We are either going to defend human rights and civil rights and women's rights and gay rights and voting rights and workers' rights and all the rest that is at stake, or we are going to turn the clock back. And that's why I have tried to very clearly explain where I stand on all of these issues because the stakes are so high. And if I'm fortunate enough to get the nomination, I will run hard against whomever the Republicans' nominee, because they represent a brand of politics and policies that I think would hurt our country. I don't want to see that happen. CAMEROTA: Let's say you get the nomination. Let's say you win the presidency. CLINTON: Yes, let's say that. CAMEROTA: Let's say it. And on day one, you walk into the Oval Office, what's the first phone call you make? CLINTON: Well, I think the very first phone call would be to whoever I've asked to be the chief of staff of the White House. Let's get a meeting together, let's get our agenda together. There's a lot we have to get going. The earlier we start, the better we'll be off and we'll get more accomplished. Because I want to really think hard if I do get the nomination, right then and there, how we organize the White House, how we organize the cabinet. What's the legislative agenda? You know, the time between an election and inauguration is short. You can't wait. I mean, you can't take anything for granted. You have to keep working as hard as you possibly can, but I think it's important to start planning because we know what happens if you get behind in getting your agenda out and getting your appointments made. You lose time. And you're not doing the work that the American people elected you to do. CAMEROTA: Before I let you go, I definitely want to ask you about your granddaughter. You talk about her on the campaign trail. Today is I believe or recently, Chelsea is making her first appearance on the campaign trail. CLINTON: Yes. CAMEROTA: She said she believes that you becoming a grandmother is a driving force behind your campaign. How so? CLINTON: Well, she's right, because I feel very fortunate. I like to point out I'm the granddaughter of a factory worker who came to this country as a young immigrant. Went to work in the lace mills in Scranton, Pennsylvania. So, here I am three generations later asking people to vote for me to become their president. And we have this amazing 15-month-old grandchild with another on the way next summer. And so, I think a lot about the future, but I think not just about her future because we're going to do everything we can to make sure she has the best opportunities life can offer, but I think about what kind of country she'll become an adult in and what kind of world is going to be waiting for her. I want to make sure—it's not just our grandchild, but every child who has the opportunity to go as far to fulfill their God-given potential as possible. And a lot of that depends on the kinds of decisions that our presidents make. It's not, you know, you have to have family support, you have to have community support. I wrote a book called "It Takes A Village." I understand that. Do you kids have health care? That's why I created the children's health care insurance program, because too many didn't. Your kids have good education, that's why I'm for early childhood, because too many kids come to school unprepared. How about college affordability? Too many kids are weeded out because they can't afford to start or stay. I go through the list of what is really dampening the opportunities that young people in our country have right now. And I want to be the president who unleashes that potential again. CAMEROTA: And when you think about your grandchildren's future, are you worried or hopeful? CLINTON: I'm always hopeful, Alisyn. I'm always hopeful. I think this is the greatest country. When I listen to the negative comments made about our country on the campaign stage predominantly by the Republicans, I mean, look at what we've come back from. It was a Republican administration under which we had the Great Recession. That is just a fact. President Obama inherited an economy that was losing 800,000 jobs a month. I don't think he gets the credit he deserves for digging us out and getting us standing again. So, I know that choices really matter in politics, but I am absolutely committed to the belief, the conviction that I have that our country is resilient, we're strong, we're smart. Given the right leadership, we can do anything. That's why I actually am quite optimistic and confident about the future. CAMEROTA: Secretary Clinton, thank you so much. CLINTON: Thank you, Alisyn. CAMEROTA: Great to talk to you. CLINTON: It's great to see you.
STEPHANOPOULOS: Bernie Sanders and Hillary Clinton going at it this week as we begin this campaign in 2016 just two weeks from the Iowa caucuses. Secretary Clinton joins us now from Charleston, South Carolina, ahead of tonight's big debate. Good morning, Madam Secretary. CLINTON: Good morning, George. STEPHANOPOULOS: I want to get to that back and forth between you and Bernie Sanders, but first the news that the American hostages from Iran are heading home this morning. Donald Trump not giving the president any credit and Marco Rubio says it's going to create incentives for other U.S. adversaries to take hostages. Does he have a point? CLINTON: Well, look, I'm pleased, like I hope everybody is, that we have American citizens coming home this morning from Iran. They were unjustly held there, and I did a lot of work on these issues when Americans were being picked up, falsely charged and imprisoned, to get them home. So I applaud the fact that that's happened. We still don't see Bob Levinson coming home, so we have unfinished questions and business still. But I think this is a part of what we're going to be pursuing—persistent, patient diplomacy. Today's also the day that we have verified the Iranians have followed through on the requirements under the nuclear agreement. They have shipped out the vast majority, I think it's up to 98 percent, of their enriched uranium. They have poured cement into one of the reactors we worried about because of a plutonium potential threat. They have destroyed centrifuges. So this is the kind of smart diplomacy I was proud to be a part of in the first administration of President Obama that we're just going to have to be persistent with, because we have a lot of problems with Iran—their aggressive behavior, their destabilizing of neighboring states, their continuing military support for Assad and so much else. But the fact that we've put the lid on the nuclear weapons program, the fact that we got our prisoners back, I think is a reason for good news. STEPHANOPOULOS: Let's get to the campaign right now. A strange series of events yesterday. The super PAC coordinating with you put out word that they'd be demanding to release of Bernie Sanders' health records. Sanders campaign struck back, calling that vile. Your campaign disavowed it. It appeared to go away. So what is relevant here and what's not? Should age and health be an issue in this campaign? CLINTON: Oh, look, you know, I put out my medical records. I think you've been around long enough to know, George, this is all part of the expectation. But I think it's fair to say that I share a lot of the same goals with Senator Sanders about what we need to do on behalf of our country. But we have differences. And that's what I'm focusing on now. We're going to have a spirited debate, I expect, tonight in Charleston. Certainly Senator Sanders has been pointing out differences. And one of the issues that I have drawn a very stark contrast on has been guns. You know, I have pointed out repeatedly, because I think it's a critical issue, that Senator Sanders has, for years, voted many times on behalf of the NRA gun lobby position. And one of the most egregious of those votes was the vote to give immunity from all liability to gun makers and sellers. Now, I was happy when - STEPHANOPOULOS: He now supports taking that away. CLINTON: Well, he flip-flopped last night, said that he would sign on to a bill that is currently pending in the House and Senate to repeal that liability. And I'm delighted that he has had a change of heart. I think that's all for the good. Now I hope he will take a hard look at what we call the Charleston loophole. That's a provision he also voted for, that gives a gun to a potential buyer after three days whether or not the background check has been completed. And it's called the Charleston loophole because that's how the killer in Charleston got his gun when, if there had been a little more time, information would have come to light that would have shown he was prohibited. And, of course, we know he used that gun to go to Mother Emanuel Church and murder nine faithful people at Bible study. So I want to see movement against the gun lobby, because we cannot continue to lose 90 people a day, 33,000 a year, to gun violence. And I welcome Senator Sanders moving on one of the issues he was wrong on. I hope he will continue to move. STEPHANOPOULOS: And we're going to ask him about that in a few minutes. Another big difference on health care. He wants to replace Obamacare with a single payer system, Medicare for all. So are you against that because it's a bad idea or because it's not practical? Would a single payer system be better if you could get it passed? CLINTON: Well, first, I share the goal of universal health care. You know very well that I threw myself into that back in '93 and '94 and still have the scars to show for it. So the goal is we want everybody to have access to quality, affordable health care. But I think we should be defending the Affordable Care Act. This is a historic achievement for our country. It certainly is for President Obama. We are making progress. I want us to protect it, to defend it and to improve it. The Republicans keep trying to repeal it and offer nothing in place of it. So rather than tear it apart or get rid of it and start all over again in a contentious national debate, let's do what I'm proposing, to get costs down, get out of pocket costs down, get more support for families who face big medical costs. Let's deal with the rising cost of prescription drugs. That, I think, is the right way for the country to go and it certainly is what I'm advocating. STEPHANOPOULOS: You also have your differences over Wall Street. We've heard a little bit of that going into this. And I was struck this morning, American Crossroads, a super PAC founded by Karl Rove, who, of course, worked for President George W. Bush, has just launched this online ad in Iowa. [begin video clip] UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Hillary Clinton's gotten 54 times more money from Wall Street interests than from all of Iowa. Hillary rewarded Wall Street with the $700 billion bailout. Then Wall Street made her a multi-millionaire. CLINTON: I represented Wall Street. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Huh, you sure did, Hillary. [end video clip] STEPHANOPOULOS: Now, that echoes the points being made by Bernie Sanders in his campaign. Are you worried that your ties to Wall Street are weighing you down? CLINTON: Well, first, let me say I think it shows how desperate the Republicans are to prevent me from becoming the nominee. I find that, in a perverse way, an incredibly flattering comment on their anxiety, because they know that not only will I stand up for what the country needs, I will take it to the Republicans. I have a track record which shows I know how to stand up to them. And I will win. So I think this just proves my point, that I am the strongest candidate to go up against any Republican. With the back and forth on Wall Street, I think it's, you know, look, I have stood up to Wall Street even though I did represent New York. I have advocated for changes. But what I find sort of strange is, number one, the ad that Senator Sanders ran was really against all Democrats who ever took any contributions from anybody associated with the financial industry. That would include President Obama, who took more anyone ever had in 2008. That did not stop him from turning around and imposing the toughest rules on Wall Street since the 1930s. The same with Barney Frank, who has actually written about this. You know, that is just a false charge. But in addition, I think it's important for us to look at our respective plans. In fact, everyone who has offered an opinion about the plan that Senator Sanders has proposed and the one I put together has said mine is tougher, mine is more comprehensive, it would be more effective, because it tries to get not just at the problems of yesterday, but the potential problems of tomorrow, going after shadow banking and investment banks and big insurance companies, like what we saw in '08 where Lehman Brothers and AIG were principal causes of what happened to us. And I think, finally, I would say that I have gotten maybe 3 percent of my - less than 3 percent of my contributions this time from anybody associated with financial industry activities. I've gotten so much more from students and teachers. Ninety percent of my contributions are from smaller donors and 60 percent from women. So I'm just - you know, I didn't know about Karl Rove's ad against me, but it kind of boosts me up, because I assume he thinks that I am going to get the nomination and he's trying to interfere with the Iowa caucus to maybe confuse people on their way to caucus for me. STEPHANOPOULOS: Madam Secretary, thanks very much for your time this morning. CLINTON: Thank you. Good to talk to you, George.
TODD: But we start with the Democrats and a Hillary Clinton/Bernie Sanders race that has turned out to be much closer than the experts thought especially the Clinton campaign. In fact, we have some brand new NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll numbers out this morning and it does have some good news for the Clinton campaign. Nationally we still have her with a big lead over Bernie Sanders 59 percent-34 percent. But in Iowa the story has been very different. Three polls out this week alone showing neck and neck race including our own NBC News/Wall Street Journal/Marist polls which had Clinton leading by jut 3; Quinnipiac found Sanders actually up by 5 and the "Des Moines Register" had Clinton up by just 2. Bottom line, it's too close to call. So as they close the race it has become a more aggressive race against Sanders so we begin with Hillary Clinton who joins Clinton campaign against Sanders and so we begin with Hillary Clinton who joins us from Charleston, South Carolina. Good morning—Secretary Clinton. CLINTON: Good morning, Chuck. TODD: Let me start with the Iran deal. Yesterday in response to it you immediately said that Iran is still violating U.N. Security Council resolutions with its ballistic missile program which should be met with new sanctions, designations and firm results. So I guess my question is what do you tell the American public that says you want new sanctions against Iran, they're still violating agreement and yet what did we do? We just handed them $100 billion and we just did a prisoner exchange. Would you have still done that considering your concerns about their missile program? CLINTON: Absolutely. Look I have said for a long time that I'm very proud of the role that I played in getting us to the point where we could negotiate the agreement that puts a lid on Iran's nuclear weapons program but I've also said that the way we're going to hold them accountable is to have consequences when they do anything that might deviate from the agreement or continue to block the kind of sanctions and mandates the U.N. Security Council has put on, including on missiles. So I see these as mutually reinforcing, Chuck. I was delighted that the prisoners are on their way home. That's a good sign. We still don't see Bob Levinson coming home, there's more work to be done there. But if the implementation of the agreement which is being done today is to be successful in the way that I expect we're going to watch Iran like the proverbial hawk. And when it comes to the missile program, they are under U.N. Security Council sanctions and if they are violating it which the evidence seems to suggest they should be held accountable. They need to know that this is a good step forward with respect to the nuclear weapons program but there are other areas of their behavior that we're going to continue to be focused on. TODD: Do you consider Iran a national security threat to the United States? CLINTON: Well, certainly we have lowered that threat because of the nuclear agreement but they continue to be destabilize governments in the Middle East. They continue to support proxies and terrorist groups like Hezbollah. They continue to threaten Israel. There are a lot of concerns. But what I've said for some time now is I'd rather have the nuclear weapons program off to one side and work to make sure they abide by the agreement and then turn our attention to some of these other behaviors that are threatening, certainly in the region and therefore cause concern for us. TODD: All right. Let me move to the campaign. To try to figure out why this race has gotten closer in Iowa, why your lead has shrunk in Iowa, we spoke to a number of voters. I want to play three sound bites from Iowa voters about some potential pause they have regarding your candidacy. I'm going to play it and get you to respond on the other side. [begin video clip] JAY HELTON, O'MALLEY SUPPORTER: You get the impression from her that she believes maybe the rules don't apply to her. Or the same rules don't apply to her that apply to everybody else. NATASHA NEWCOMB, SANDERS SUPPORTER: She's worked really hard and done some amazing things I just feel that Bernie Sanders is kind of—has a little bit more fire lit up in people. SALLY WILSON, CLINTON SUPPORTER: Well, I hear people talking about questioning her honesty. And I don't necessarily do that but I think that's one thing people are kind of not sure and they've felt that way about Bill Clinton, too. So I think some of that rubs off. [end video clip] TODD: Madam Secretary, how do you answer that pause. This is from Democrats—some pause that they have. CLINTON: Well, first of all, Chuck, I always thought this was going to be close and I can't speak for anybody else but I've worked as hard as I can to build an organization in Iowa, to be out there listening and talking with Iowans as they move toward making the first in the nation decision in the caucus on February 1. And I've also been very consistent over the course of my public life. If I tell you I'm going to fight for something, I will do my very best to get results. I think that's why I have such strong support and I feel very good about where we are but we're going to just keep working until the very last caucus is decided on February 1. TODD: You know, another problem you may be having in Iowa is that you don't ideologically fit. This was in the Des Moines Register poll this week. 43 percent of likely Democratic caucus goers identify as socialist. Only 38 percent of likely Democratic caucus goers identified themselves as a capitalist. You, in the last debate, said you were a capitalist. Bernie Sanders calls himself a Democratic socialist. If you don't win Iowa, do you think that's the reason? CLINTON: Oh, I don't know how people take all this information. But I support a free market economy. I support the competitiveness that has created the greatest economic engine in the history of the world. What I am worried about is that it's not continuing to do what it used to do which is to give the vast majority of Americans the chance to get ahead and stay ahead. That's why I've got a very vigorous jobs agenda. That's why I put raising incomes at the center of my economic policy and I think what I know will work is to get back the good old-fashioned job opportunities that will help people get ahead through manufacturing, through infrastructure, through clean energy, through the kinds of plans that I've been putting out. Look, when we have a Democrat in the White House—a Democrat—we do that better economically. We saw that when my husband was president, we've watched President Obama dig us out of the huge ditch that Republican policies put us into, so I'm very confident that I know what will work if we have a—the right commitment as a nation and that's what I want to do as president. TODD: Let me ask you about whether—going with Chicago—right now, Mayor Rahm Emanuel has been under fire for what he may have known about a shooting incident. Do you think he still has the credibility to heal the wounds in Chicago between the African-American community and law enforcement? CLINTON: Look, like everybody else who watched that video on television I was just outraged by what happened to Laquan McDonald. I was one of the first to call for a complete Department of Justice investigation and, in fact, urged that it include the entire Chicago police department. This is not a problem that is unique to Chicago, unfortunately, and we've got to do more to deal with the systemic racism and the problems that policing has demonstrated. Mayor Emanuel has said that he is committed to complete and total reform and I think he should be held to that standard. TODD: But do you think he still has the credibility to do that? CLINTON: Well, that's going to be up to him and up to the people of Chicago to prove. TODD: Very quickly, the movie "13 Hours" about the incident in Benghazi. I know there's a lot of chatter about the movie itself. But let me ask you—the controversy involves whether or not everything was done that night to rescue Ambassador Stevens. Looking back, do you believe everything was done that night that could have been done to save his life? CLINTON: Based on everything I know and based on a Republican-led intelligence committee investigation, is a Republican-led arms services committee investigation, the answer to that is yes. That people were scrambling trying to figure out what could be done if anything. And I can't speak to a movie but I know people have raised questions about some of the dramatization. I testified for more than 11 hours, as you know I answered every question I was asked. My real focus, Chuck, is what do we do to make sure that we send Americans into harm's way—military or civilian, diplomats or our soldiers—we take every precaution to the best of our ability in what is an unpredictable and dangerous world to make sure that they can discharge their duties and be safe while doing it. TODD: All right. Secretary Clinton, I have to leave it there. We look forward to seeing you tonight on stage in Charleston for the Democratic debate. CLINTON: Great. TODD: That's right here on NBC. Thank you. CLINTON: Thanks a lot. TODD: You got it. END LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2016 LANGUAGE: ENGLISH PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript Copyright 2016 Federal News Service, Inc. All Rights Reserved       7 of 1079 DOCUMENTS Federal News Service January 17, 2016 Sunday CBS "Face the Nation" Interview with Former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, Democratic Presidential Candidate LENGTH: 1189 words ??????????????????????? Subject: The 2016 Presidential Race Participants: John Dickerson Time: 10:30:00 Date: 2016-01-17 DICKERSON: And we start with former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, who is in Charleston this morning. Good morning, Secretary Clinton. After this prisoner exchange, Senator Marco Rubio said—quote—"If you take an American hostage, Barack Obama will cut a deal with you, whether it's Bowe Bergdahl, what he did with the Castro brothers, and now what he's done with Iran." Your reaction to that? CLINTON: Well, I think it's just typical political rhetoric, and it overlooks some very basic, important issues. Number one, we always try to get Americans back who are unjustly held. I certainly did when I was secretary of state. And when I was a senator, I advocated for the Bush administration to do the same for people who have been unlawfully held in foreign countries. Secondly, the important news here is that the Iranian agreement to put a lid on the nuclear weapons program of Iran is being implemented. The Iranians have so far fulfilled their side of the bargain by destroying centrifuges, by shipping out 98 percent or so of their enriched uranium out of their country, even making one of their plutonium reactors under construction no longer able to be ever used because they have poured cement into it. So, the real issue here is, if you're committed to making the world safer and to show strong American leadership, you have to engage in patient, persistent diplomacy with people who are not your friends. They are on the other side of a lot of the issues and values that you hold very dear, and that is certainly true for the United States. DICKERSON: Former FBI agent Robert Levinson is still in Iran. Do you believe that the Iranians know where he is? And, if so, why wasn't he a part of this deal? CLINTON: Well, I regret deeply that Robert Levinson was not on his way home either. And I hope and expect that the Iranians will continue to be pressed very, very hard to give up any information they have and, if possible, to return Bob Levinson to his home and family. DICKERSON: Switching to the topic of gun control, you have said Bernie Sanders should vote or support the idea of lifting the immunity block on gun manufacturers. He now says he will support the legislation you have pushed him to. So, hasn't he done what you wanted him to do? CLINTON: Well, I am pleased that Senator Sanders has flip-flopped on legal immunity for gun makers and sellers. Now I hope he will also join members of Congress to change what's called the Charleston loophole that enabled the killer in Charleston to get the gun that he used to murder nine people at Bible study here in Mother Emanuel Church. That's something else Senator Sanders has supported that we need to change. So, now I'm calling on him to also flip-flop in the right direction and sign on the legislation to change the Charleston loophole. DICKERSON: You at once in 1939 when you were first lady supported in testimony in front of the Senate Finance Committee a 25 percent tax on guns. You're not supporting that now or promoting that now. How have you evolved over the years in terms of your support for the Second Amendment? CLINTON: Well, I do support the Second Amendment. That has always been understood. I just believe that, like any amendment to our Constitution, there are reasonable steps that can be taken. We have reasonable restrictions on certain kind of speech or certain forms of assembly. And for goodness sakes, we ought to be smart enough and do so consistent with the Constitution, to have more gun safety measures to try to save some of the 33,000 lives that we lose to gun violence every single year. This is something that I have spoken out about, that I have advocated for right now. I think there is a consensus in the country on comprehensive background checks, closing the gun show loophole, closing the online and Charleston loopholes, reversing the immunity given to the gun industry, certainly prohibiting would-be terrorists on the no-fly zone from buying guns. That's kind of the commonsense approach that we should be working to achieve. DICKERSON: I would like to ask you about these stories out of Flint, Michigan. Lead levels in the water have created an emergency there. Senator Sanders called for Rick Snyder, the governor, to resign. What is your feeling? CLINTON: Well, John, this is an issue I have been involved in now for a couple of weeks. I am horrified by what has happened in Flint. I started calling for immediate action, calling for federal intervention. I sent two of my top campaign aides to meet with the mayor of Flint. As you may know, I appeared on a show this past week and demanded that Governor Snyder ask for the help that Michigan needs to deal with the horrible consequences that children and their families are facing in Flint. And I saw that Governor Snyder turned around within two hours and finally asked for the help that he should have asked for some weeks ago. I don't want to get caught up in the political back and forth here. I want to help the people of Flint. And I particularly want a comprehensive health analysis of what's happened to these children. Lead is a poison. It destroys your brain. It interferes with your learning and your behavior. Whatever it takes for Michigan and the federal government to come together, through FEMA, through Health and Human Services, the EPA, whatever it takes, we now have to fix the problem and help these kids and especially their health and education development probably for years to come. DICKERSON: On the topic of health care back at the national level, you—your daughter, Chelsea Clinton, said that Senator Sanders' universal health care plan will dismantle Obamacare, dismantle Children's Health Insurance Program, and a series of other things it would dismantle. Aren't—isn't she and your campaign not taking into account that those things would be replaced by an actual plan that Senator Sanders has put forward? CLINTON: Well, I think it's very confusing, because he hasn't put forward a plan. And the only way we know what it is he's advocating for comes from looking at the nine bills that he's introduced in the House and Senate and Congress. And in those bills, every kind of health care is rolled all up together, and handed over to the states, which bear a financial responsibility to match what the federal government provides in order to administer health care. So, it's not a traditional kind of single-payer system, as I understand it. It is a state-based system, kind of similar to Medicaid, if you will. And I do think there are very legitimate questions that can be raised, and because we don't have an up-to-date plan from Senator Sanders, all of us trying to figure out what it would mean for everybody to be put into that new system. DICKERSON: All right. Well, Senator—excuse me—Secretary Clinton, I know that will be debated this evening when you're on the stage with Senator Sanders. We thank you for being with us. CLINTON: Great to talk to you again, John.
Citation: Hillary Clinton: "Interview with Chuck Todd of NBC News "Meet the Press"," January 17, 2016. Online by Gerhard Peters and John T. Woolley, The American Presidency Project. http://www.presidency.ucsb.edu/ws/?pid=111434.

TAPPER: We're joined right off the bat by Democratic candidate for president and former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton. Madam Secretary, thanks so much for joining us. On Saturday, you called for new sanctions against Iran for its ballistic missile program. That prompted a response from another American who was once held prisoner in Iran, Shane Bauer, one of the hikers released in 2011. He had some tough words for you on Twitter, writing—quote—"Seriously, why would Hillary call for more sanctions now? As far as we know, four of the Americans are still in Iran. Totally irresponsible"—unquote. He also said, whenever he was in Iran, whenever he heard your voice, his heart would sink, because—quote—"All she ever does with Iran is inflame tensions." I want to give you awe chance to respond. CLINTON: Well, look, I appreciate what he went through when he was held prisoner in the infamous Iranian prison. And we were very happy that we were able to get him and the two other hikers back home. But we have a very clear path we are pursuing with Iran. I am pleased that we do have an agreement that is being implemented. And I was part of putting that in place by getting the sanctions imposed on Iran that the entire world went along with. But we also have made it clear from the beginning that their missile activity is still subject to sanction. That is part of the overall approach that the administration has taken toward Iran, and that I support. So, when we became aware of missile activity that is under U.N. supervision and is prohibited, it would be a mistake not to make clear to Iran that we are very, very happy to see us implementing the agreement to put a lid on the nuclear weapons program and the way that they have complied, but that doesn't mean they can now go off and invest and test a lot of missiles that would eventually be able to be intercontinental that could reach the United States and maybe carry a very dangerous weapon. So, I think there might be a misunderstanding of what our whole agreement consists of, because, certainly, I have made clear I'm proud of the role that I played in getting that agreement in place, but, as president, I will enforce it. And there have to be consequences if Iran veers away from what it has agreed to or what it has been mandated to do or prohibited from doing by the international community. TAPPER: Let's turn to politics, obviously a big night tonight, a Democratic debate. You will be facing off with Bernie Sanders in this new, more contentious phase of the election, with just a week and a—two weeks and a day until the Iowa caucuses. One of your top allies, David Brock, is calling on Bernie Sanders to release his medical records. The Sanders campaign—campaign manager, Jeff Weaver, he called this—quote—"one of the most desperate and vile attacks imaginable." Who's right there, David Brock or Jeff Weaver? [laughter] CLINTON: Well, I don't know anything about it, but I have released my medical records. And I remember being asked frequently for me to do so. And, so, obviously that's, you know, something I will leave up to the Sanders campaign. But this is a spirited debate, because, although we share some very similar goals for our country, we have differences. And Senator Sanders has been pointing them out. One of my biggest differences has been on guns. And I'm very pleased that he flip-flopped on the immunity legislation. Now I hope he will flip-flop on what we call the Charleston loophole, and join legislation to close that, because it's been a key argument of my campaign that we Democrats, in fact, Americans need to stand up to the gun lobby and pass comprehensive commonsense gun measures that will make America safer. And that's what I intend to do. TAPPER: One of your major lines of attack against Bernie Sanders, in addition to the gun one that you just leveled, has been on his proposal for single-payer health care. Back in 1994, you said a single-payer system administrated by the states would actually lower health care costs. Take a listen. [begin video clip from 1994]CLINTON (in 1994): Single-payer would have lower costs. And one of the reasons that the president has a provision in his approach that guarantees states can go single-payer is to permit states that are able to do that to start down the single-payer road. [end video clip] TAPPER: Now, I know that was a long time ago, but you said in the Q&A single-payer would not be politically feasible. In a perfect world, do you believe that single-payer would ultimately lower health care costs? CLINTON: Well, I believe in universal health care. And I think we have now, finally, after many decades of efforts, thanks to President Obama, a plan that will get us to universal health care. It's the Affordable Care Act. So, I'm not interested in what the Republicans are trying to do, which is to repeal it, as they consistently vote to do. And I also think it would be a mistake to really thrust our country into another contentious national debate about how we're going to provide quality, affordable health care to everybody. So, I'm... TAPPER: Right, but just on the merits. CLINTON: ... very focused on—well, the merits are we need to get to universal health care. That is the merit. The merit is, how do we get to universal health care, where everybody's covered, where everybody can afford it? We have had some experimentation with states. Actually, Vermont tried to do single-payer. They found that the cost and the taxes that were required were prohibitive. Colorado now has a referendum on its ballot, so it's going to also pursue it. I'm a big believer in letting states experiment. But when it comes to where we are right now, in 2016, I'm going to defend, protect, and improve the Affordable Care Act. TAPPER: For years, you have been very protective of your daughter, Chelsea Clinton, especially when she was a child, of course, and now she's a grown woman. This week, she surprised a lot of people when she unleashed one of the most scathing attacks of the cycle, accusing Bernie Sanders of wanting to empower Republican governors who might then cut people's health care. PolitiFact called Chelsea's remarks mostly false. Former Obama adviser David Axelrod said it was not an honest attack. And liberal columnist Mark Shields said the attack turned your daughter into a—quote—"political hack." Do you think it was a mistake to muddy up Chelsea like that? CLINTON: Look, she was asked a question. I love my daughter. And she answered a question. And all I can say, Jake, is that the only health plan we know of from Senator Sanders is what's described in the legislation that he has introduced nine times in the Congress, in the Senate. And it does turn all of the programs we know of that provide health care over to the states. The federal government would provide a big portion of the cost, but states would be mandated to also pay considerably, about 14 percent of the cost. That's what's in his bill. So, I think anyone who wants to compare and contrast, since we don't have any more current plan from Senator Sanders, has to look at the legislation that he introduced. And, yes, if it were going to be state-run, then governors, Republican and Democrat alike, would bear responsibility for appropriating the funds and administrating it, according to Senator Sanders' own legislative proposals. TAPPER: So, no regrets about using Chelsea that way? CLINTON: Oh, I didn't use her. She answered a question. And, you know, she gave a factual answer, based on the legislation that is the only way we know what Senator Sanders is actually proposing, because he introduced it nine times in the Congress. TAPPER: OK. PolitiFact said it was mostly false, but let's move on. A new movie opened this weekend. It's called "13 Hours: The Secret Soldiers of Benghazi." It's a cinematic version of a book, a nonfiction book, telling the story of the six private security contractors who defended the U.S. Consulate in Benghazi, Libya, from an attack by Islamic militants. Are you planning to see it at all? CLINTON: I'm just too busy campaigning. I am still very focused on making sure we do everything we can, as I did when I was secretary of state, as I testified to over 11 hours, to make sure that nothing like that happens again, insofar as we are able to prevent it. And that's my focus when it comes to the continuing obligation that the United States government has whenever we send anyone into harm's way. TAPPER: Let's talk about ISIS. It's a big concern among many Americans. I know that you're very reluctant to criticize President Obama, and I understand that. But I want to ask you about the situation in Syria on the ground, because Anne-Marie Slaughter, who is the former director of policy planning at the State Department under you, she told me on my show "THE LEAD that, if President Obama had listened to you about arming the Syrian moderates years ago, there's a—quote—"very good chance that we would not be facing ISIS like we are now." Do you agree? CLINTON: Well, we will never know the answer to that question. Obviously, I thought, at the time, it was the right approach. And I advocated for it, along with then Secretary Panetta and CIA Director Petraeus, because I was worried about what would happen if there were a very vicious civil war, when, on one side, you had Assad's army backed by Iran, and now we know also backed by Russia, against a group of people who wanted more freedom, wanted to live in dignity, not the continuing oppression from the Assad regime, that it would be a pretty uneven match, to be understating that, and it could open territory for terrorist groups, foreign fighters, and others to come in. So, let's talk about where we are now. And I have laid out a plan to deal with ISIS about airpower that is being used now, with more nations joining the United States, which is in the lead, to try to go after ISIS leadership, infrastructure, other assets, also to support Iraqi and Syrian fighters who are on the ground trying to take territory back from ISIS, and what else we need to do to build up those forces, the Iraqi army, which has had some success taking back Ramadi, Sunni tribal fighters, which we have to get back into the fight, and that is beginning to happen, and supporting the Kurdish fighters, who have been extraordinary brave on both sides of the border, by helping to equip and support them. So, we have a clear mission to deprive ISIS of territory. And there is some movement, positive movement on that. And then we have to cut off their foreign fighters, their foreign funding, and take them online—take them on online, so that they are no longer able to recruit and propagandize, which keeps their flow of fighters and money coming. TAPPER: I'm told we're out of time. I just have one last question for you. In terms of the status of the FBI investigation into your private e-mail server, have you been interviewed by the FBI yet? CLINTON: No. TAPPER: You haven't. All right, Secretary Clinton, thanks so much. Really appreciate your time. Good luck with the debate tonight. CLINTON: Thanks. Thanks, Jake.
TODD: This morning, there is some good news though for Clinton. She won the endorsement of the "Des Moines Register". By the way, as did Marco Rubio on the Republican side but one would argue the "Des Moines Register" will probably have a greater impact among Democratic caucus goers. So joining me from Cedar Rapids, Iowa is the former secretary of state Hillary Clinton. Madam Secretary—welcome back. CLINTON: Thank you—Chuck. It's good to talk to you this morning. TODD: You got it. Let me just start with this. Your opponent 74 years old, calls himself a socialist, started this campaign with next to zero name recognition. You have 38 of 44 U.S. senators endorsing, 12 of 18 Democratic governors. He has zero. What happened? What's gone wrong? Save me the "we always knew this was going to be a close race" answer. CLINTON: Well Chuck—look, I think it's actually good for the debate that we're having that there is so much interest and energy that I feel on my side and I know, obviously so does senator Sanders on his. We have a big choice to make. And it's exciting. I had a great couple of events yesterday. I'm enthusiastically pursuing the opportunity to reach every single voter in Iowa and we're going to see what happens. I feel good about where we are. Obviously, we'll find out a week from tomorrow. But if you look at the differences between Senator Sanders and myself, I just don't think we can't wait. We can't wait to make progress on the myriad of issues that I think we're going to be facing in the next administration. I want to build on the progress that President Obama has made and he has a different approach. And that's what voters are trying to determine, which they prefer. TODD: Look, as you know, the caucuses sometimes are about passion, enthusiasm. Let me read you something that was in the "New York Times" from Gayle Collins. "Nevertheless, you can't ignore the fact that Hillary Clinton is now the candidate of the aging Democratic establishment whose supporters pray for a low turnout on the Election Day. That might get her nominated in the long run but it's not really the kind of image that makes you go whistling into the election booth." By the way, she wrote that in 2008. By the way, she wrote that in 2008, Madam Secretary. Is there a deja vu happening here? CLINTON: No, there isn't. I just have to tell you, can only react to what I'm doing, feeling, getting responses from people. And you know, I feel great that we have the level of enthusiasm that we do and we also have a really good team on the ground that has been working for months to make sure that it's not just here today, gone tomorrow. But people are involved. They are really reached out to and yes, we believe they're going to come caucus. So, you know, the speculation and all the rest of it is entertaining, I admit that. But we're just going to keep moving forward and do the work that we think is going to be successful on February 1st. TODD: Are you worried that experience, your long resume, is not an asset in this wild year? CLINTON: No, I'm really not. Because I think at the end of the day people take this vote seriously. They know they're voting for who they prefer to be the next president and commander in chief, and I believe that when I am out there talking with people about what we have to go up against here at home, get the economy working for everybody, not just those at the top, begin to raise incomes, which hasn't happened, deal with health care, going from 90 percent coverage, which is what we have under the Affordable Care Act now, to 100 percent and I lay out what intend to do to get there. I can only tell you they see people nodding. I know people are signing up as they leave my events. That's what matters here. It's very personal, and people look and they think, can we imagine this person to be president and commander in chief? And because of my experience, particularly my years as secretary of state working with President Obama, I think that's something that people really take into account. TODD: What are you willing to—you know, it's interesting, your husband used a lot of political capital—you and your husband used a lot of political capital to do health care. President Obama, arguably, used all of his political capital to get health care passed. What is it? What is the one issue you are going to be willing to use all your political capital to focus on? You and I both know you basically have one big shot at one big issue. What is it that you're willing to use all your political capital to do with? CLINTON: Well, Chuck, first of all, I don't agree with you on that. I think that there are several really important issues, health care being one of them. We've got to get costs down. I met a man on Friday who no longer can afford to pay for his HIV medication. I met a woman yesterday whose bill for the drugs she must take and has taken for 25 years has gone from a couple hundred to over $14,000 for the same amount of the drug. That really hits my heart. I know what people are going through. I'm going to use whatever tools I can to get us lower prices, cap those prescription drug companies and take that on. But I'm also going to focus on the economy because unless we create more jobs and get incomes rising and fix the tax system so that it doesn't in so many ways tilt toward the wealthy, people are not going to get ahead, they're not going to feel they're getting ahead and they're going to still believe that the government, the economy is rigged against them which is bad for our democracy. TODD: As you know, your opponent Senator Sanders has been hitting you on Wall Street contributions and including some paid speeches that you did for Goldman Sachs among other banks. Let me ask you this—why do you think one of these big banks paid you over $200,000 for a speech? CLINTON: Well, look, I gave speeches to a wide array of groups from health care groups to auto dealers and many, many more, and I think what they were interested in because what we talked about was the world coming off of four years as secretary of state in a complicated world, people were interested in what I saw, what I thought, they asked questions about matters that were on their minds. A lot of interest in the bin laden raid, how such a tough decision was made and what I advised the President. You know, I think Americans who are doing business in every aspect of the economy want to know more about the world. I actually think it's a good conversation for people to be having. TODD: You don't think they expect anything in return? CLINTON: Absolutely not. You know, first of all, I was a senator from New York. I took them on when I was senator. I took on the carried interest loophole. I took on what was happening in the mortgage markets. I was talking about that in 2006. They know exactly where I stand. And I'll tell you, Chuck, it's really interesting to me that now Karl Rove has taken money from the financial interest to run an ad against me to try to influence Democrats not to support me. Why? Ask yourself why. Because he knows number one I know what must be done, and number two I know how to get it done to make sure that Wall Street writ large, not just the banks but the investment banks, the hedge funds and everybody else, no longer can wreck our economy the way they did in 2008. TODD: All right. Two more quick questions. The "Des Moines Register" editorial, in praising you and your experience, did bring up the e-mail issue as one of those things that they're frustrated with how you responded to it. Let me just ask you this question. Last week you were asked about the FBI investigation. Are you concerned? You said you haven't been contacted by them. Are you concerned this investigation is taking too long? That it's putting an extra cloud over your candidacy and until it gets behind you, you're sort of going to have these issues and Michael Bloomberg even cited it as a reason why he's thinking about running. CLINTON: No, I'm not concerned because I know what the facts are. I never sent or received any material marked classified. I cannot control what the Republicans leak and what they are contending. And I said it was interesting, Chuck—you'll as a political observer understand why. You know, back a couple of months ago Kevin McCarthy spilled the beans that the Benghazi investigation was all about bringing me down, something that I suspected but I went ahead, testified for 11 hours, answered all their questions, and even they admitted there was nothing new. And now Senator Grassley shows up at a Trump rally yesterday in Iowa. He's the chairman of the judiciary committee who has—and his staff have been behind and pushing a lot of these stories, and announces he's there for the simple reason, to defeat me. I can't control what the Republicans are doing. But I know what the facts are and I will just keep putting them out there. This is something that I think is very clear about what happened and I know it will be over and resolved at some point. But I can't control what the Republicans and their allies do. But I think it's important voters know what they're doing. TODD: And Michael Bloomberg? Your reaction to his potential candidacy? CLINTON: He's a good friend of mine, and I'm going to do the best I can to make sure that I get the nomination, and we'll go from there. TODD: So you're not worried about him getting in? CLINTON: Well, the way I read what he said is if I didn't get the nomination he might consider it. Well, I'm going to relieve him of that and get the nomination so he doesn't have to. TODD: All right. Madam Secretary—stay safe on the trail. We'll catch up with you soon. CLINTON: Thank you. Good to talk to you. TODD: Nice to talk with you.
CLINTON: Oh, thank you all so much. Thank you. Oh, you are great. Thank you. Oh, my goodness. I'll tell you, it was worth it, trying to get here. You have been so generous with your time. And I'm just so grateful to be back in Marshalltown and to have this chance to talk with you, now less than a week until the caucus on Monday night. But it's just really meaningful to me that you would be here and be part of this process, and I really am grateful to each and every one of you. I've learned a lot in the last months, and I really think that spending all this time in small groups and big ones is going to make me a better president. So I thank you for everything you've done to make that possible. [applause] And I really want to thank Mark Smith for his endorsement. I'm thrilled. Thank you so very much, Representative. And I have a—I have a plan that I hope will come to pass when it—that affects Mark. And that is I hope that we will be able to make him the majority leader of the House of Representatives in the state legislature. [applause] Think of all the good things that he could do for you and for people across Iowa. Well, it's getting close. And when all of you decide to go caucus on Monday, you're going to be the first people in the world to get to express an opinion about who should be the next president and commander in chief for our country. And I know how seriously Iowans take this because I've been talking with you and listening to you. But I want to just spend a few minutes really discussing what's at stake, because this is one of the most consequential elections that we've had in quite some time. When you think about it, there are some very big differences between us and the Republicans, and that puts a special responsibility on you and voters to try to decide where you stand. Well, I will tell you where I stand. I believe that the Republican policies that are being promoted by this crop of candidates that are traveling across our state and country would set our country back, rip up the progress we've made, and undermine our future. And that is true across the board, but let me just pick a few of the most important issues. Let's take the economy. You heard from them, they are spouting the same failed economic policies: trickle-down economics; cut taxes on the wealthy; get out of the way of corporations. We have tried that, it does not work. And it's important to know the facts. And the facts are that our economy does better when we have a Democrat in the White House who cares about creating jobs and raising incomes for Americans. [applause] And the last two Democratic presidents we've had, both of whom I know, which I kind of am proud of, they each inherited economic problems from their Republican predecessors. You know, in my husband's case, it was a recession, a huge national debt that had been quadrupled in the prior 12 years and a big deficit. So when he got to Washington, people said, "OK. So, what do you especially bring to Washington that can make a difference?" He said, "Well, I guess I bring arithmetic. We're going to make it add up again for the American people." And at the end of eight years, we did. Twenty-three million new jobs, but most importantly, incomes went up for everybody. Not just those at the top, hard-working middle-class families, working families, poor families. More people were lifted out of poverty than in any recent time in our history. And we ended up with a balanced budget and a surplus. We were on the right track. Well, back came the Republicans and back came trickle-down economics. George W. Bush slashed taxes on the wealthy and got out of the way of corporations to the extent that the man he put in charge of keeping an eye on Wall Street took a chainsaw to a big stack of regulations and had a great big smile on his face. Now we know what happened, don't we? We went into the greatest financial crisis since the Great Depression, and when Barack Obama became president, we were losing 800,000 jobs a month. I don't think President Obama gets the credit he deserves for digging us out of that big ditch that the Republicans put us in during their administration. [applause] And it was not easy. I know; I talked to him about it. When he asked me to be secretary of State, he said, "We got to focus on the economy here at home and we got to fix all the problems that we also inherited around the world." And what did he do? Well, we're back on track with 14 million new jobs. The Affordable Care Act was passed. We're now at 90 percent health care coverage in America for the first time. [applause] He passed and signed the toughest regulations on Wall Street since the 1930s, the Dodd-Frank law; saved the auto industry, which was on the brink of collapse which would have taken another, you know, couple of million jobs down with them. We ended up losing 9 million because of that Great Recession, 5 million homes were lost and $13 trillion in family wealth was wiped out. Now, if you want to go back there, you got a lot of folks, including one who was here today, who are spouting that same stuff, because that's where we'll end up again. In fact, you are four times more likely to see a recession in America when you have a Republican in the White House. So the economy is going to be at the core of this election. So you should ask everybody who's running what they're going to do about it. And I got to tell you, I'm proud of what we've been doing on the Democratic side. We have our differences, but we have differences over issues, and that's what we talk about, not insults, which is what happens among the Republicans. So I've put out a plan. Here is what I think we need to do. We need more infrastructure jobs. Our roads, our bridges, our tunnels, our ports, our airports, our rail systems, our sewer systems, our water systems. We have work to do in our country, and those are jobs that can't be exported, they need to be done right here and put Americans back to work building our economy, making us more competitive. And then we're going to take the tax system and get rid of the incentives that actually encourage people to take jobs and move them overseas, take factories and build them overseas. We're going to reverse that so we start investing in America again, advance manufacturing. I know it can be done because I've been to some of your community colleges. I have seen the work that is happening there, the training that is going on. I also know it can be done because while we are going to combat climate change, we're going to create more clean, renewable energy jobs. And that will be a huge economic opportunity—[applause]—that is directly linked to what Iowa has been doing. You know, the Republicans, when you ask them about climate change, they all say the same thing. "Well, I don't know, I'm not a scientist." You know, there's an easy way to remedy that. Go talk to a scientist, listen to a scientist, learn about what's going on. And, you know, that's bad enough that they're into denial. What really is troubling is they're missing this huge economic opportunity. And when I tell people that, I see, you know, sometimes folks around the country have a little bit of skepticism on their faces, and here's what I tell them. I know we can create those jobs because look at what Iowa has done. And I want you to thank Representative Smith. Thank you. And it started with Tom Vilsack and the Democrats making a commitment. Iowa now gets one-third of your electricity from renewable sources, mostly wind. You have 7,000 people already working in the wind industry in this state. You are doing research on advanced biofuels that the Defense Department thinks may be able to fuel Navy vessels and Air Force planes. So Iowa is in the forefront of the energy revolution because some country is going to be the 21st century clean energy superpower. It's either going to be China, Germany, or us. I want it to be us, and we need to make up our minds that it is going to be us and we're going to be doing the technology, the innovation and exporting to the rest of the world. [applause] We also need to be focusing on small business because that's where most of the jobs come from in America. And I want to be the small business president. My dad was a small businessman, so I want to clear away all the underbrush so people can start businesses again. And especially young people. S lot of young people tell me they'd love to go into business, but they can't get credit. Part of it is they have such student debts they can't get credit; we've got to fix that. So we need to make it easier to start and grow a small business. Now, there are two ways we can raise incomes real quick. One, we've got to raise the minimum wage. People who work full time should not still be in poverty. [applause] There should be a ladder of opportunity. And the other way is to guarantee equal pay for women's work, and that will raise incomes and families will be better off, the economy will be. [applause] Now, everything I've just said to you the Republicans don't agree with it, every bit of it. They don't believe in any of it. They don't really tell you what they will do except just, you know, get out of the way and let corporations do whatever they want and let their, you know, big donors do whatever they want. Well, that's not going to work. We know it won't, and we can't be sold that bill of goods again. The other thing we have to do is to change the tax system so that it is fairer. And I'm am the only candidate running on either side who has made this pledge. I will raise your incomes, I will not raise middle-class taxes. I do not think it is right—[applause]—to be going to people who suffered because of the Republican recession and asking for you to help us make the investments for the future. I want you to take advantage of them, but I want to go where the money is, and the money is at the top, and that's where we need to be shifting our tax system. So we need to close the loopholes and the special gimmicks that corporations and the wealthy use, like this thing called the "carried interest loophole" that I've been against for years. We also need to do what Warren Buffett suggested. I was really very happy that he endorsed me, and I went to Omaha with him. And we were standing there and he—[applause]—he said, you know, I'm not too popular among my rich friends these days because I think people like me should pay more money into our tax system to support our country. And he has something he calls the Buffett rule. Anybody who makes $1 million should have to pay a 30 percent effective tax rate. So I've adopted the Buffett rule and we're going to go right at it and try to get that done. [applause] And then I want to go further, I want to impose what I call a fair share surcharge on incomes of $5 million or more. Now, there aren't very many of those, but there's a lot of money there because I want to use that money to make college affordable. I want to use that money to invest in clean energy. I want to use that money to move toward paid family leave so that families get more support to be able to do their work at home and take care of their families. I want to use that money to help bring down the cost of child care, which in some states is as expensive as college tuition. There are things we can do that will relieve the burdens on middle-class families, and the money should come from those who have it. Now, people say to me, "Well, how are we ever going to get that done?" Well, I do have a political strategy. I've seen a little bit of this in the last 20-plus years. There are not that many people who make $5 million or more in America, and I think we can make a very clear case. Mr. Congressman over there, are you in favor of clean energy and affordable college? Are you in favor of early childhood education and the way we're going to get it is to tax the two people in your district who make more than $5 million? Or are you going to deny that to the 350,000 people who live in your district? We're going to make a very tough case about why we have to make the tax code fairer. You know, you can talk about it, but I have a plan to do it. Not just a plan on the substance, but a political plan because I want you to know what I aim to do for you and what it will cost you. And I want everybody to be able to look at that and make your own judgment. I also have what has been described as the toughest, most effective, comprehensive plan to go after Wall Street. Now, I totally agree with my two esteemed opponents, Senator Sanders and Governor O'Malley, that we've got to keep our eyes on the big banks. And no bank is too big to fail and no executive is too powerful to jail. But we already have the authority to go after them. That was in the Dodd-Frank bill. We don't have to do that, we just have to implement it. And I have said if they pose a systemic risk to our economy, I will go after them and I will use the process President Obama signed into law. But here's where I differ with my two friends—that is not enough. And this is what we've been arguing about on the debate stage. You see it wasn't just the big banks that caused our problems, it was an investment bank like Lehman Brothers. It was a big insurance conglomerate called AIG. It was a mortgage company called Countrywide. It was another bank, not one of the big five, called Wachovia, and others who are in what is called the shadow banking sector. So what I've is we're going after risk wherever it is in the financial system. And Paul Krugman, the Nobel Prize-winning economist, said I have the best plan. Barney Frank, who is actually the Frank in Dodd-Frank, said I have the best plan because I'm trying to look not just at what happened in the past to prevent that from happening again, but what could happen in the future. And you know, the best evidence I have that I have the best plan is that the Republicans and their billionaire allies are running ads against me. You know, it started a few weeks ago. These two hedge fund billionaires formed a super PAC to run ads against me to convince Democrats not to support me. And then along came Karl Rove, you know, the errand boy for the billionaires, and he's now running an ad against me. And now another billionaire has jumped in, and he's now running an ad against me. Now you got to stop to think, why are they spending all this money to try to convince Democrats not to support me? Well, I think you know the answer, because they know that I say what I mean, I do what I say I will do, and I know how to get it done, to take after them, to prevent them from—[applause]—pushing an agenda on us that hurts the economy. Now, another area where I have very strong feelings and share exactly the same goal as Senator Sanders is health care. You know, I believe in universal health care coverage. Every American should have it. You know, before it was called Obamacare it was called Hillarycare back in '93 and '94 when I was trying to get universal health care, and we were not successful. And that was really disappointing. I mean, the drug companies, the insurance companies spent millions of dollars against us. So we didn't succeed. And then I got to thinking, well, what can I do now? Because, you know, my view is when you're knocked down, you share the human experience because everybody gets knocked down about something. The real question is whether you get back up. So I started thinking, what can I do that can help somebody make a difference in their lives. And I remembered when I was traveling around the country trying to get universal health care, meeting so many people who did not have health insurance, they couldn't afford it, they had a pre-existing condition and the insurance companies wouldn't give it to them. And I met so many really good, decent people who are so overwhelmed by what was happening to them. And I remember I was at the Children's Hospital in Cleveland. I was meeting with a group of parents whose kids were really sick with chronic diseases. And one man said to me, he said, "You know, I've gone everywhere to try to get insurance for my daughters. I have two girls with cystic fibrosis, and nobody will sell it to me." I said what do they say when you go ask them and you tell them you want to try to pay for something? They say no. He said, I'll tell you what the last person told me at the insurance company I visited. He said, we don't insure burning houses. This man said, they called my little girls burning houses. And that stuck with me, that and the stories I heard. So I started to work with Democrats and Republicans and we created the Children's Health Insurance Program, and it now insures eight million kids because when you get—[applause]—you encounter an obstacle, you run into a problem, you've got to keep going. You can't ever stop if you're trying to accomplish something that will help other people. And I was thrilled when the president passed and signed the Affordable Care Act. We've been trying to get that—the Democratic party has been trying to get that accomplished since Harry Truman. And now, I meet people all the time who are benefiting from it. I want to build on it and I want to improve it. You know, the Republicans want to repeal it, and that's what they'll do if they get the White House back. We can't let that happen. Here is what I want to do. I want to decrease costs, out-of-pocket costs; decrease prescription drug costs. [applause] I want to make sure that we get the authority for Medicare to negotiate for lower drug costs with the drug companies. I want to go after the predatory pricing that drug companies are using to raise the price of drugs. I want to take away their tax benefits. They actually get a tax benefit for advertising all that stuff on TV to us that we never—I can't understand what they're talking about. They have people walking through fields of wildflowers, walking on beaches. They have the name of the drug which, you know, is unpronounceable. And then in a low voice, under the music, they have somebody saying if you take this drug, you know, your nose will fall off. I mean, it—[laughter]—drives you crazy. And they spend more money advertising on TV than they spend on research. So we're going to go right at them. We're going to take them on on this. But I don't want to start over, my friends. That's the disagreement I have with Senator Sanders. I want us to build on what we have and make it better, and go from 90 percent coverage to 100 percent of Americans. I don't want to start at zero and have to—[applause]—fight it all over again, have to have the national battle we that we had on health care over the last 25 years. So I'm determined that we're going to make this work for everybody, and I know it's the right thing to do. And I hope that, you know, we will be able to get your costs down, your co-pays, your deductibles, what, you know, a lot of people are telling me are starting to pinch again. I also will defend Social Security against privatization. The Republicans still want to privatize it. They're still talking about that. It's a terrible idea. And you know the worst part of the idea is they want to turn the entire Social Security trust fund over to Wall Street. That's what this is all about. Take all that money that people have been paying in for, you know, 75, 80 years and turn it over to Wall Street. I will never let that happen. That is the worst—[applause]—idea that is imaginable. I will also not let them voucherize Medicare, something else they want to do, and I will not let them privatize the VA. We have to fix the VA, but we are not going to take away guaranteed benefits from our veterans who have earned them through their service. That's not going to happen. [applause] And when it comes to foreign policy and national security, well, I think we have a lot to do to keep our country safe, and I have some ideas that I've been putting out based on what I did in the Senate after 9/11, based on my work as secretary of State. It's imperative that we do everything we can to defeat ISIS, to stop the flow of foreign fighters and funding to fight them on the Internet where they're quite effective without putting American troops back on the ground in either Syria or Iraq. [applause] That will not happen. It's not—it's not going to happen on my watch. And then we have to do a better job working with federal, state, and local law enforcement to keep us safe at home, and we have to do a better job sharing intelligence, getting intelligence that will help us prevent attacks. When I was a senator after 9/11, I'd be kept up-to-date on all the threats that still were facing New York, and we had a very, very dedicated group of police and federal law enforcement and everyone who worked together. But, you know, one of the best things we did was a campaign which said, If you see something suspicious or you hear something suspicious, report it. And so people were picking up the phone and telling the police or maybe calling the FBI, and it really provided kind of the—the eyes-on help that we needed. And people could then follow up, and we prevented attacks. We foiled attacks. Well, the reason I mention that is because of this. The Republican candidates, led by their frontrunner, have been attacking Muslims, right? You've heard that, attacking American Muslims, attacking Muslims around the world. That's not only shameful, it's dangerous. We need everybody in this country to be on the same team when it comes to preventing terrorist attacks. [applause] And we need people who are in the community who hear something, see something to report it and not feel like they're being demonized, defamed, insulted, pushed out. And certainly, if we're going to defeat ISIS, we need a coalition that includes Muslim nations. Now, I can tell you I built the coalition that imposed sanctions on Iran. I know a little bit about how you do this. You don't start by insulting people's religion and then ask them to be part of your effort to defeat a common adversary. [applause] That's not the way it works in the real world. So we have to be smart about how we protect ourselves, and that will be my highest priority. I also want to continue to move toward comprehensive immigration reform, which I think is in the best interest of our country and our economy. [applause] And I want to let you know where I stand on a lot of the issues that the Republicans have taken positions on because they seem to be against so many of the fundamental rights that I support. I am for a woman's right—a woman's right to make her own health decisions, and I am against defunding Planned Parenthood. [applause] I am for marriage equality and against discrimination against the LGBT community. I am against Citizens United, which is a terrible decision that has opened the doors to floods of unaccountable money from the Koch Brothers and others. And I would do everything I can to reverse that decision. I also want to keep pushing for criminal justice reform and reform in the incarceration system. And I want to fight for common sense gun safety measures that will help keep— [applause] —Americans safe without infringing on gun owners' rights. We are a smart—we are a smart people. We can do this. And what I don't understand is how when we know we have, on average, 90 people a day dying from gun violence, 33,000 people a year, we cannot figure out how to protect people, protect first-graders going to school, people going to a movie theater, churchgoers going to Bible study. We can do this. We can't stop every murder or every suicide or every tragic, avoidable accident, but we can stop a lot of them without infringing on anybody's rights. And 92 percent of the American people agree with that, and 85 percent of gun owners agree with that. So we need somebody who will stand up to the gun lobby and stop them from intimidating common sense reforms in our country. [applause] So we have a lot of work to do, my friends. And you have been really patient. The children who are still here have been especially patient, and I don't want to keep you any longer. I just want to say a few closing comments, and then for those of you who want to stay, I will shake your hands and take pictures and you can ask me questions. But everybody else can go home and not feel bad about it because I need you to get up tomorrow and help work to get more people to go to the caucus next Monday. [applause] And, you know, I am all about—I am all about making progress against the odds. I am all about working with people. I worked with Republicans as first lady, as senator, as secretary of State. I worked to get results for the people I represented in the Senate as well as our country. I worked when I was secretary of State to make our country safe and to have our values and interests promoted. And I know how to find common ground because I've done it. I don't think that—I think I—I do believe that probably every Republican I served with at one time or another sponsored a piece of my legislation. Actually, when I'm not running for something, they say nice things about me. [laughter] Even in the case of Mr. Trump, they give me money because they think I'm so good as a candidate and a senator. So, you know, this is politics. This is all that that goes on. But once the election is over, I will work as hard as I can to find that common ground, to get good things to happen for you, for your families, for your country and make it possible for young people to feel like I felt, that, you know, really the American Dream was available. You had to work for it, but if you did, you could get ahead and stay ahead. That's what I think about when it comes to my granddaughter. You know, I am the granddaughter of a factory worker, she is the granddaughter of a former president. I think it shouldn't matter. The grandchildren of everybody should have the same opportunities in our country. [applause] And that's what I am going to stand up for and fight for. And with your help, starting at the caucus next Monday night, that's what we will do together. Thank you all so much. [applause]
MATTHEWS: You know, we're getting near closing time and closing arguments in the big fight in Iowa, and then in New Hampshire coming on quickly. Donald Trump is not going to debate on Fox tomorrow night. Will you debate on our debate? Will you show up? CLINTON [via telephone]: Look, Chris, what I've said through my campaign is that I would look forward to another debate. I am, you know, anxious, if we can get something set up, to be able to be there. And so let's try to make it happen. MATTHEWS: Well, someone has to lead from the front. Will you be there, no matter what? Will you show up and wait and see? Will you be there waiting for Bernie Sanders and Martin O'Malley? Would you, in other words, lead the pack in showing up and committing to doing that? CLINTON: Look, I'm ready for the debate, and I hope Senator Sanders will change his mind and join us. And I think the DNC and the campaign should be able to work this out. I've said for — you know, for a long time that I'd be happy to have more debates, and I hope we can get this done. MATTHEWS: Well, if he doesn't show up, will you? CLINTON: Well, let's hope that we can get it worked out. I don't want to — you know, I don't want to jump the gun and create more problems for everybody trying to get this worked out, so we can all come to agreement that the voters of New Hampshire and America deserve to see us, you know, debating before the New Hampshire primary. MATTHEWS: So you won't be there — just a last question on this. You won't be there unless Bernie's there. CLINTON: Well, I'm not committing to that, either, Chris. I think we should have another debate. I think people want it. They have called for it. Folks have moved forward trying to get it set up. We've got, you know — look, 24 hours in a political campaign is an eternity. MATTHEWS: Right. CLINTON: We've got a little time to try to get everybody on board, which would certainly be my preference. MATTHEWS: OK, you believe candidates should have the courage to face each other before the — before the caucuses, in other words. You think you should be there and he should be there. CLINTON: I do. I think that — you know, I agreed, we all agreed to go with the process that the DNC had set up. And you know, I've been saying for a while that if they come up with more debates, I will be there. And now we've got a real, live possibility, and I — I personally think it would be great for the — you know, the primary. We're moving into the caucus, as you know so well, on Monday. MATTHEWS: OK... CLINTON: And then once we come out of there, whatever happens, we should agree to debate in New Hampshire. MATTHEWS: In other words, you're sticking to your commitment, I will be there. CLINTON: I will — I will debate. Now, as I say, I'd want — I want all the campaigns and the DNC to agree. That is my preference. MATTHEWS: OK. CLINTON: That's what we've tried to, you know, do in our side of the ledger here. MATTHEWS: OK. CLINTON: And I'm pushing people to come to agreement so we can all get out there and debate before the New Hampshire primary. MATTHEWS: Well, this is getting very sharply worded as we get closer to the caucuses. The word in "The New York Times" this morning, Madam Secretary, is that Senator Sanders is readying an attack ad against you. We don't know whether he's going to use it, but the language is basically that you're in hock to Wall Street because of the speaking fees you've taken from Goldman Sachs. How do you respond or how will you respond to an eleventh-hour attack like that? CLINTON: Well, first, it's really disappointing, Chris. You know, Senator Sanders has started to get increasingly personal with his attacks. He even compared me to Dick Cheney last week, which, you know, is kind of a low blow. So it would be another escalation and a breaking of his pledge not to go negative. One of the things that I think has been great about the Democratic side is we really have focused on issues, while the Republicans have been hurling insults. And I think the people in Iowa want to go to the caucuses thinking about which one of us as president can actually make a difference in their lives, and that's the case I've been focused on making. So you know, it would be a sharp departure by Senator Sanders. And you know, the other part of this, is anybody who knows me knows you can't buy me. I mean, honestly, I've been standing up and fighting and getting knocked around for years, trying to get things done that I think would improve people's lives. And I'm not going to stop, and that includes anybody trying to, you know, mess with our financial system. MATTHEWS: Well, when he uses phrases like — dark phrases like, You can draw your own conclusions, as to whether you're in hock to Goldman Sachs or anyone — is that — is that a low blow, You can draw your own conclusions? CLINTON: Well, I think he's trying to go to the line without going over it. And you know, clearly, some of the journalists covering us are starting to notice and call him out on it. But I feel very — you know, very positive and energized by what I'm seeing happening here in Iowa. And I know that I have the best plan to rein in Wall Street abuses, to make sure it doesn't ever happen again. Lots of folks, from Barney Frank to Paul Krugman, have said that's the case because I don't just go after the big banks. You know, we already have the authority to do that under Dodd-Frank, and I have said I would use that authority if they were posing a systemic risk to our economy. But equally importantly, we've got to go after the shadow banking sector. You know, let's not forget Lehman Brothers, AIG, Countrywide, Rapovia. And let's also remind people, Chris, that, clearly, the billionaires, as Bernie likes to say — the billionaires have chosen sides. They're running ads against me and trying to, you know, kind of hoodwink Democrats into voting against me because they know exactly what I will do because they've seen me in action. So whether it's, you know, Karl Rove or the hedge fund guys with their own super-PAC, or Joe Ricketts jumping in now with a kind of ham-handed effort to look like he was, you know, going against Bernie, when the real point was to, you know, stir opposition to me. I take that as perversely flattering and as the single best refutation of what Senator Sanders is trying to imply. MATTHEWS: Well, you're giving us a real rogue's gallery here of Dick Cheney and Karl Rove. [laughter] 
Anyway, let me ask you about the slogans. You used a phrase the other day, these shouting slogans. Now, I know what you mean — I'm going to build a wall across the Rio Grande — across — along the Rio Grande River. I'm going to make the Mexicans pay for it. But on the Democratic side, Senator Sanders says things like free health care, or rather, government-paid health care for life, as a right. He talks about free tuition when you go to a great school like Berkeley or Madison, Wisconsin. Free! Free! Is that what you mean, this — we had a young guy on yesterday from South Carolina who switched from you to Senator Sanders, and he — I went through this list of free things and I said, Where's the money come from? And he says, Well, we put a man on the moon. We can do this. And that kind of fantastic — what do you call it — appeal. And then I heard from Sanders the other day that they're going to stay left, right to the general, they're not going to make any appeal to the middle. How do you beat somebody who promises to go hard left, right to November, and offers all this stuff to people who are 20 years old, 22 years old, and they don't have to pay much taxes now, but you say, Look, you're going to get free — no more tuition bills, no more bills! You're going to have no health care the rest of your life, so forget having to buy insurance. It's a pretty good offer. Is that what you mean by shouting slogans? CLINTON: Well, I was really more referring to the Republicans, as you pointed out initially. And I have been, you know, pointing out the differences in the approach between myself and Senator Sanders because I know that it's more important we actually make progress than fall back into gridlock. And let's take health care as an example. You know, we've been trying, as Democrats, since Harry Truman to get on the path to universal coverage. Before it was called "Obama care," it was called "Hillary care," and I have the scars to prove it. And I was thrilled when President Obama passed and signed the Affordable Care Act. We are now at 90 percent coverage. I sure think we ought to improve it. I've got plans to get the costs down and make sure we do go after high prescription drug costs and some of the other drivers of health care costs. But I think it's a lot smarter to try to go from 90 percent to 100 percent than to throw our country into another contentious debate about health care. Where's the money going to come from? Who's going to be paying it? If you have health care you like, if you're under a private plan, do you have to give it up? If you're on Medicare and you work, do you have to pay more taxes? All these questions that would be thrown back into the public arena and we'd have to start all over again from 0 to 100 percent. I just think we want to stay on the path of making progress. Now, some people, you know, say, Oh my gosh, that's so pragmatic. It's not, you know, soaring, or whatever they say. Well, I'm out there talking to people who prescription drug costs have gone up from $200 to $14,000. I'm talking to people whose insulin cost has gone up three times. That's not a new drug. That doesn't have any new research in it. I'm talking to people who are thanking me for the Affordable Care Act because the lifetime limit, the cap has been lifted. And a man yesterday in Davenport said to me, I'm so grateful because I've got a granddaughter with a congenital heart condition. These people can't wait, Chris. We can't wait for another big debate that promises, you know, the sky when we know we've got to deliver on the ground. We've got to help people deal with the problems, the issues, the challenges they're facing right now. We have to restore faith that our government can work. And that is what I intend to do as president, and I'm going to keep fighting for that. And I respect the goal because Senator Sanders and I share the same goal. We want to get to universal coverage. I think my way will get us there faster and provide the health care that the people here in Iowa are telling me they are desperately, desperately in need of. MATTHEWS: Last question, and it's so important to this campaign. I think so. I know you think so. It has to do with history. And it's not the only issue in the campaign, obviously, but if you look at the American Constitution — and you've studied constitutional law — and the fact is that it wasn't until after the civil war that African-American men were given the right to vote in the 15th Amendment. And then women didn't get it until after the First World War. There's a long lag there. Obama was elected president. You might get elected president. You may well get elected president. Do you think it's — you think young American women — say, young women in college, 18 to 22, 23 — do they get it, how long this struggle has been and the fact that it's a precarious struggle that could fall back? Do they know that all the rights to choice, to equality at workplace, where they do get it, all were fought for? Do they get it? That's my simple question. I don't know if they do. Do you think they get it? CLINTON: Look, I think that a lot of young people — and I wouldn't limit it to women. I think young people of every background, every racial, ethnic, religious background, are, you know, trying to understand how best they can participate in our political system and what the stakes are for them. And of course, you know, if you haven't been through a lot of these struggles, it's easy either not to know about them or to think they didn't go far enough or that, you know, everything is taken care of. So we've got the two extremes of the argument. But here's what I'm hearing, at least from the young women who come to see me. They say, Hey, OK, you're for equal pay. What are you going to make sure I get it? I had a young woman the other day here in Iowa say, I want to go to law school. How can I be sure that if I work hard and do well and get a job, I'm going to get equal pay? And I said, OK, that's the right question because we've been fighting for this. We've made progress, but not near enough. Here's exactly what I think we need to do to get it. Or young women who say, you know, I can't balance family and work. I had a young woman come to see me holding her 9-month-old baby and she said, you know, I can't go back to work until I get my baby stabilized. I need paid family leave. What are you going to do about it? So I think what's happening is, as the campaign goes on, a lot of young people — and let's focus on young women — are moving from the sort of general, either we haven't gone far enough or those fights are over and I don't have to worry about it, to being much more specific. And that is a good development because at the end of our efforts here in the primaries, and if I'm so fortunate enough to get the nomination, then I think we fight out an election between a party that believes we've got to continue to address the lacks in our drive for equality, our drive for justice, whether it's racism, sexism, homophobia, you name it — we need to address those gaps, and the other side doesn't even want to admit they exist. So I think we're going to have a very positive reaction in the general election between, you know, the big deniers on the Republican side, and you know, Let's make progress, get things done, on my side. MATTHEWS: Thank you so much. One last — just to clarify what you said about the debate. Would you like the chairman — the chair of the Democratic National Committee, Debbie Wasserman Schultz, to approve the MSNBC/NBC debate next week? CLINTON: I would like the chairmen of the party and the campaigns to agree that we can debate in New Hampshire next week. MATTHEWS: OK. CLINTON: That is what I'm hoping will happen. MATTHEWS: OK. Thank you so much. It's been an honor to have you on, Secretary Hillary Clinton from Iowa. Thanks for joining us on HARDBALL tonight. CLINTON: Thanks, Chris. Good to talk to you again.
STEPHANOPOULOS: Thank you for joining us, Madam Secretary. [crosstalk] Let's talk about that "Des Moines Register" — that "Des Moines Register" poll that has you in the lead — eight years ago, your hopes were dashed by that surge of new voters for Barack Obama. Are you confident that won't happen again? CLINTON: Well, George, here's what I'm confident about. We've run a terrific campaign from the grassroots up. I feel so proud and grateful to the thousands of Iowans who have joined this campaign. And we're going to keep working as hard as I can and everybody else, until the caucuses conclude tomorrow night. Of course, it's close. It's competitive. That's why I hope everybody who has decided to caucus for me will be sure to come out on Monday night. STEPHANOPOULOS: You did have that surprise on Friday; the State Department saying they will not release 22 emails of yours deemed top secret. You want them released. Why are you so confident that release would not compromise national security? What do you know about those emails that we don't? CLINTON: Well, here's what I know. I know that this is, I think, a continuation of the story that has been playing out for months. There is no classified marked information on those emails sent or received by me. Dianne Feinstein, the ranking member of the Intelligence Committee, who's had a chance to review them, has said that this email chain did not originate with me and that there were no classification markings. So I do want them released and of course I can't be clear about exactly what the reasons might be for some in the government, as part of this interagency dispute, to make this request not to make them public. But I would like to see them disclosed and I think they can. It should be disclosed — [crosstalk] STEPHANOPOULOS: Your supporters — CLINTON: — that I'm told about them. STEPHANOPOULOS: — your supporters including Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack, former governor of Iowa, and Senator Feinstein herself, has suggested it's political. Is that what you think? CLINTON: Well, it's — I'm going to leave that to others who are quite experienced in the ways of Washington to comment on. I just have to point out that the timing and some of the leaks that have led up to it are concerning. And I just want this matter resolved. The best way to resolve is to do what I asked months ago, release these, let the public see them and let's move on. STEPHANOPOULOS: You know, you've said many times that the emails were not marked classified. No evidence that that's not true. But the non-disclosure agreement you signed as secretary of state said that that really is not that relevant. It says classified information is marked or unmarked classified and that all of your training to treat all of that sensitively and should know the difference. CLINTON: Well, of course. And that's exactly what I did. I take classified information very seriously. You know, you can't get information off the classified system in the State Department to put onto an unclassified system, no matter what that system is. We were very specific about that and you — when you receive information, of course, there has to be some markings, some indication that someone down the chain had thought that this was classified and that was not the case. The final thing I would say because clearly the best answer to all of this is release and disclose these materials is that what I'm told is that this chain of emails very well included a published newspaper report. That seems a little hard to understand, that we would be retroactively over classifying a public newspaper article. So let's just get it out. Let's see what it is and let the American people draw their own conclusions. This is very much like Benghazi, George. You know, the Republicans are going to continue to use it, beat up on me. I understand that. That's the way they are. But after 11 hours of testimony, answering every single question, in public, which I have requested for many months, I think it's pretty clear they're grasping at straws and this will turn out — [crosstalk] STEPHANOPOULOS: Finally on this matter, you know, a few months back, you told my colleague, David Mir it was a mistake to set up this private server. Yet just this Monday, you said there was no error in judgment. How do you square those two statements? CLINTON: Well, look, as I've said many times, it was permitted. My predecessors had engaged in a similar practice. It was not the best choice. I wouldn't be here talking to you about it. I'd be talking about what people in Iowa are talking to me about, about affordable health care and jobs and rising wages and all of the concerns that are on their minds. And be, you know, really able to answer their questions as I have been now for so many months. STEPHANOPOULOS: You and Senator Sanders really going at it right now. And here was — he was on the stump there yesterday, saying this about your attack. [begin video clip] SANDERS: Don't tell me that I'm defending or protecting the gun lobby. Don't tell me I'm attacking Planned Parenthood. Those are inaccuracies. And we can do better than that. [end video clip] STEPHANOPOULOS: He's calling you on this, says he got a D- rating from the NRA and 100 percent record with Planned Parenthood. CLINTON: Well, let me tell you what the people who work on these issues every day have said. They say I'm the leader. I'm the leader who has taken on tough issues. I've taken on difficult issues like Planned Parenthood, the gun lobby, for many years. And they concluded to endorse me by the Planned Parenthood Action Fund. I was very honored to have that. That's not saying that others haven't voted with them. But they were looking for a leader and they found it with me. I've been endorsed by The Brady Campaign and yesterday in a very emotional event in Ames, Iowa, endorsed by Gabby Giffords and her husband, Mark Kelly, because they believe I'm the leader that they want to stand up to the gun lobby, the same with the Human Rights Campaign. They concluded I was the leader to protect and advance the cause of the rights of the LGBT community. Now that is just the facts. People who have known us, people who have evaluated us, people who have concluded what they want in the next president have sided with me. And I'm very proud of that. STEPHANOPOULOS: You know, you just mentioned [inaudible] hitting you with the email issue. They're clearly going to hit Bernie Sanders with the fact that he's a Democratic socialist if he gets the nomination. Some of your supporters concerned about that, Senator Claire McCaskill, are saying they can't wait to run an ad with a hammer and a sickle. Steny Hoyer, Congressman Steny Hoyer, saying he calls himself a socialist. I don't think that's a good title to be running for President of the United States. Is that what you think? Will the fact that he's a Democratic socialist make it harder for Democrats to win in November? CLINTON: Well, that certainly is what a lot of Democratic leaders are saying. And I take them at their word. They know their states. They know the country. They know we have to take back the Senate. They want to make some advances in the House as well as at governor and legislature levels across the country. Here's what I think. I think I've been subjected, as you know so well, to years of scrutiny and I'm still standing, talking to you in the lead here in Iowa for the caucuses and going on after that. And it's a very tough gantlet to run. And if there are issues, that Republicans and their allies on the Right believe they could use to bring down a Democratic, they're going to use it. I feel vetted. I feel ready. I feel strong and I think I'm the best person to be the nominee and to defeat whoever they nominate in November. STEPHANOPOULOS: Finally, I wonder what your response to this quote from your old friend, Robert Rice, Secretary of Labor under President Clinton. He said you're the most qualified candidate for the political system we now have. But Bernie Sanders is the most qualified candidate to create the political system we should have. How do you respond to that? CLINTON: Well, look, I'm a progressive who thinks it's important to actually make progress. That's what I've done my entire life. That's what I will do as president. Obviously I have big goals. I want to get to universal coverage; I want to get the economy working for everybody, not just those at the top. Get incomes rising, get women equal pay, raise the minimum wage, have a renaissance in manufacturing, move toward clean, renewable energy — I have big goals. And I tell you how I'm going to get there and how I'm going to pay for them. And I think that is what the Americans want. I'm not going to sit here and overpromise and under-deliver. I'm going to tell you what I know we can achieve, and that's going to take the political system we have right now, and then I intend to bring in more people, as always have, George. When I ran for Senate the first time, you remember, you know, people didn't give me much of a chance. I won and then when I was reelected, I won with a bigger percentage. And then when I was Secretary of State, even the Republicans said I was doing a good job. So I understand politics. I understand a campaign. I am focused on my mission to make sure this country works for everybody, particularly hardworking middle-class families who rightly feel they've been left out and left behind. I think I know how to do that, and I think the voters know that I know how to do that. STEPHANOPOULOS: Secretary Clinton, thanks for joining us this morning. CLINTON: Great to talk to you, George. Thank you. STEPHANOPOULOS: And we will be right back with Bernie Sanders.
Wow! What a night. An unbelievable night. What a great campaign. This has been an incredible honor to campaign across Iowa, with so many of you to make the case for the kind of future we want.For the Democratic Party and for the United States of America. There is so much at stake in this election, I don't need to tell you. Every single one of you who came out for me, who worked so many hours — from my young organizers with energy and passion to the families and friends across this state — I am deeply grateful.I love all of you. Here's what I want you to know. It is rare that we have the opportunity we do now, to have a real contest of ideas. To really think hard about what the Democratic Party stands for and what we want the future of our country to look like if we do our part to build it.I am a progressive who gets things done for people. I am honored to stand in the long line of American reformers who make up our minds that the status quo is not good enough. That standing still is not an option. And that brings people together to find ways forward that will improve the lives of Americans. I look back over the years of my involvement from the very first job I had at the Children's Defense Fund. And I know. I know what we are capable of doing, I know we can create more good paying jobs and raise incomes for hardworking Americans again. I know that we can finish the job of universal health care coverage for every single man, woman, and child.I know we can combat climate change and be the clean energy superpower of the 21st century. I know we can make our education system work for every one of our children, especially those who come with disadvantages. I know we can make college affordable and get student debt off the backs of young people. And I know we can protect our rights, women's rights, gay rights, voting rights, immigrant rights, workers rights. I know too we can stand up to the gun lobby and get common sense gun safety measures.And how do we do that? We do that by securing the nomination, and then we do it by winning and going into that White House as others before have, determined to push forward on the great goals and values that unite us as Americans.I congratulate my esteemed friends and opponents; I wish Governor O'Malley the very best. He is a great public servant who has served Maryland and our country and I am excited about really getting into the debate with Senator Sanders about the best way forward to fight for us and America. In the last few weeks, we finally began to have what I think is one of the most important substantive conversations that the Democratic party could have. And I am thrilled at all of the people who are playing a part in that.I know that we may have differences of opinion about how best to achieve our goals. But I believe we have a very clear idea that the Democratic Party and this campaign stands for what is best in America. And we have to be united. When it is all said and done, we have to be united.A Republican vision and candidates that would drive us apart and divide us. That is not who we are, my friends. I follow their candidates very closely, I understand what they're appealing to, and I intend to stand against it. I will not — I will not let their decisiveness, their efforts to rip away the progress that we've made, be successful. Because we can't afford that. As I stand here tonight, breathing a big sigh of relief, thank you, Iowa. I want you to know, I will keep doing what I have done my entire life.I will keep standing up for you. I will keep fighting for you. I will always work to achieve the America that I believe in, where the promise of that dream that we hold out to our children and our grandchildren never fades, but inspires generations to come. Join me, let's go win the nomination. Thank you all and God bless you.
ROBERTS: Well, what do you say we talk to Hillary Clinton, who's good enough to join us this morning on a very important and busy day. Thank you so much for doing that. And so do you have the victory party all set for tonight? CLINTON: Well, this is a very tight race, Robin. It's really going down to the wire. But we feel very good, we've worked so hard. I've had a great operation here. So many young people, organizers who fanned out across the state, the thousands of volunteers. We did knock on 125,000 doors this past weekend. So we're very committed, very energized and enthusiastic, but it all depends upon who shows up tonight, who comes out to caucus in Iowa. And I'm urging everyone who is interested in, committed to caucusing for me to please be there tonight, 6:30. I will be there in spirit, because if you stand up for me, I will stand up for you during this campaign and into the White House. ROBERTS: You know, there are so many similarities between what is going on right now and eight years ago. You again are affected — unexpected challenge that you are facing. What are the differences and similarities between what you're experiencing now and what happened eight years ago here in Iowa? CLINTON: Well, I think that I have a much better organization, to be just really clear about it. I think that we built an organization using a lot of the lessons learned, and we recruited some of the best people that you could find anywhere in the country working in Democratic politics. I think I'm a better candidate. I think that in addition to just knowing more about the caucus process and what we needed to do to build toward this night. My experience as secretary of State really deepened and intensified my understanding about what the next president will have to face. So all in all, I feel like it's a different energized effort that is really bringing in people from across the state and, indeed, across the country who know what's at stake in this election, understand how really dramatic and drastic it would be if the Republicans were to take back the White House because they would rip out the progress. We wouldn't be able to, in my view, get the economy going for everybody, get incomes rising, get affordable college, take care of the rising prescription drug costs, everything I'm talking about, which is really in response to the concerns and the worries that I hear from people as I criss-cross this state. ROBERTS: All 99 counties you have criss-crossed, and we have seen you and we've seen your husband and we've seen your daughter as well. [laughter] CLINTON: Well, I haven't gotten to all 99. ROBERTS: A third of — CLINTON: I had to — let's just say that. I don't want anybody to think that my silence is affirmation. But I've covered a lot of ground and I sure have met many thousands of people and have really learned so much. You know, that's the best part of this. It's obviously exhausting, it takes a lot of concentration. But what keeps me going are the stories that people tell me. There's something so intimate, at least in my experience because I actually try to listen to people and hear what's on their minds when someone tells you about the open heart surgery that their granddaughter had to have as a baby and how they couldn't have afforded it without the Affordable Care Act, or when a young woman says she's just drowning in student debt and needs a way out, that sticks with me. And I think that the months I've spent here listening to Iowans has really made me a better candidate and I think it will make me a better president. ROBERTS: Well, speaking of listening to Iowans, we have John Karl. He is out and about, and he is with some voters. And, you know, a third of voters here are undecided, and let's hear what one voter has to ask you. John? JONATHAN KARL: Hello, Robin, hello Secretary Clinton. We're with Rob here from Dennison, Iowa. Incredible thing about this. Rob, you were undecided between Hillary Clinton and John Kasich. So you don't even know which party — what's your question for Secretary Clinton? QUESTION: Good morning, Secretary Clinton. My question for you is as a liberal Republican — it seems to be a dying breed anymore — I want to know how you're going to work bipartisanly with a very partisan Congress and a — and a seemingly polarized nation. KARL: Good question. CLINTON: That's a — that's a really great question, and thanks for asking it because I get asked that a lot. You know, I have a record of working with Republicans. When I'm actually in a position to do so — when, you know, there's a campaign, it's a little bit different — but when I was first lady, I worked to achieve the Children's Health Insurance Program, working across the aisle with both Republicans and Democrats, even reformed our foster care and adoption system, teaming up with Tom DeLay, a very partisan Republican in the House. And when I got to the Senate, I worked hard to get health care for the National Guard and Reserves, I worked with Senator Lindsey Graham in that case. And I — I don't know that there was a single Republican who didn't co-sponsor one of the bills that I worked on. And as secretary of State, I had similar efforts to reach common ground that proved successful. I know in a campaign that distinctions have to be drawn because we have to give voters a real sense of what each of us wants to do, and to hold us accountable for the agenda we put forth. But I am confident that I'm going to work really hard to find that common ground across the aisle, and we will make progress together. ROBERTS: Secretary Clinton, thank you very much. We appreciate you joining us on this very busy and important day. Thank you. CLINTON: Thanks so much. Great to talk to you. ROBERTS: You as all — as always.
[begin video clip] CLINTON: I hope you will fight for me. And I promise you this, I will stand up and fight for you every single day of this campaign. And then when we win I will fight for you in the White House. Thank you and god bless you. [end video clip] CAMEROTA: A powerful close to Hillary Clinton's last campaign event of the night Sunday. Former secretary of state spent most of the day making her way through Iowa in a last ditch effort to rally caucusgoers ahead of tonight's vote. Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton joins us now. Secretary Clinton, good morning. CLINTON: Good morning, Alisyn. CAMEROTA: Okay. How are you feeling and how do you plan to spend the next 12 hours? CLINTON: I am feeling great. I am so proud of the campaign we have run here in Iowa. I've got the most dedicated campaign team, the organizers who have been on the ground, the thousands of volunteers. We actually knocked on 125,000 doors this weekend. So there is just a lot of excitement and energy. I'm urging everybody to come out and caucus tonight to be part of this unique American process. I hope they will come out and caucus for me. CAMEROTA: So, Secretary, let's talk about the issue that has bedeviled your campaign. That, of course, is the ongoing investigation into your e-mails. On Friday, the State Department withheld 22 e-mails. They didn't release them. Because of material deemed top secret. I know you have been asked this six ways to Sunday along the campaign trail and I know that you've always said there is nothing there, but your opponents have said that this is big. It's is a big deal. How do you convince voters today not to be concerned about this? CLINTON: Well, Alisyn, there is nothing new. And I think the facts are quite helpful here. It's a little bit like what the Republicans and others have tried to do with respect to Benghazi. Just a lot of innuendo, a lot of attacks. I just know that after I testified for 11 hours, answered every question, nothing new came up. Most voters have made up their minds. And I'm grateful for that. The same here. And I think most of the voters who have followed this know exactly what's going on here. I never made any different explanation than the one that I have made over and over again. I take classified information seriously. I did not send or receive any material marked classified and I want all of these released. This is a dispute about retroactive classification, quite a mouthful. So what people talk to me about is how I'm going to get incomes up, how I'm going to make sure the Affordable Care Act works, and get prescription drug costs down, and make college affordable and relieve student debt. That's what's on voters' minds. And that's what I'm talking about and that seems to be what is exciting and energizing people as they move toward the caucus tonight. CAMEROTA: Um but Secretary Clinton, something does seem to be happening with this investigation, or at least the FBI seems to be talking about it more, because in the past week several media outlets have said that their sources in the FBI say, quote, "something's going to happen." What does that mean to you? CLINTON: It means people are selectively leaking and making comments that have no basis in anything I'm aware of. And, you know, I regret that that seems to be part of the atmosphere because we need to let this inquiry run its course, get it resolved. But I can tell you, Alisyn, that is not on the minds of the literally thousands of people that I have seen in the last few weeks. And I'm glad it isn't. Because the facts are the facts. No matter how much selective leaking or anonymous sourcing and all that kind of stuff that goes on, what people want to know is what I can do to be the best possible president for them and their families. And I've been thrilled at the kind of reaction and response I've been getting, the crowds that we had. That last event last night was just overwhelming. I'm looking forward to people coming out expressing their opinion about who can be the best president and commander in chief for the Democratic Party and then getting on to win the Democratic nomination and being successful next November. CAMEROTA: Yesterday "The New York Times" endorsed you. They wrote that you are the right choice in terms of experience and vision. I'm sure that was music to your ears. Do you think "The New York Times" endorsement plays in Iowa? CLINTON: Well, I don't know. But I know "The Des Moines Register" does and they endorsed me. I know "The Boston Globe" matters and a lot of the newspapers in New Hampshire that have endorsed me and this is very gratifying because, yeah, there is a lot of static that goes on and the Republicans and their allies are determined to do everything they can to try to bring me down. They don't know me very well. Because I don't quit when I'm fighting for what I believe in. And I believe that I can be the president who makes progress with people. And I'm just going to stick with it. And so when very respectable and responsible outlets like "The Register" or "The Times" or "The Boston Globe" and others look at all the candidates, interview us, ask us really hard questions and conclude that I'm their choice for president, I find that incredibly validating. And I do hope that voters pay attention to it because it's a pretty tough vetting process they go through. CAMEROTA: Secretary Clinton, that's talk about the Republicans and what's going on in terms of how the electorate feels. I know that you know that this campaign has been about how angry and how anxious people are feeling out there and of course all of the division in this country. Some people say we have never seen anything like it. You've made a point during the campaign of talking about how you don't really like how the Republicans do become in many ways. So how would you bring the country together, including Republicans? CLINTON: Well, the same way I always have. When I'm not actually running for office, I work closely with everybody, including Republicans, to find common ground. That's what I did when I helped to create the Children's Health Insurance Program that insures 8 million kids. I worked with Democrats and Republicans. It's what I did when I got to the Senate and, you know, worked with Republicans to get health care for our National Guard and Reserve members when they weren't being deployed. I worked on responding to 9/11. I found common ground on a number of issues with respect to health care and the like. As secretary of state, the same thing. So, Alisyn, I think that you've got to work at it every single day. There is no shortcut. You have to build the relationships and you have to be willing to try to meet people where they are and move them over. That's the way politics works in America. That's the way our system is set up to work. Now we can get frustrated by it. We can wish that it were smoother. But I'm very proud of the record that President Obama has compiled. You know, the Affordable Care Act, the Dodd-Frank regulations on Wall Street, getting our economy out of the ditch. The Republicans put it into working to put those sanctions on Iran, the effort I led. And so much more. So I know how you get things done. I am a progressive who wants to make progress and actually produce real results in people's lives. That's what I'm offering. I'm not overpromising. I'm laying out the plans that I have. I'm asking people to look at them and I'm asking people to hold me accountable. Because I want to get back to working together to try to unite this country to make it possible for us to set big goals and achieve them. That's what I intend to do. CAMEROTA: Let's talk about how this differs for you than 2008. Once again, you find yourself here in Iowa with an opponent who some think sort of came out of nowhere but who has garnered a lot of excitement. So why isn't this deja vu all over again for you today? CLINTON: Well, look, I always thought we'd have a close contest and I think that is good. It's good for the Democratic Party. But I'm thrilled at my campaign and we learned a lot of lessons. We have applied those lessons. We have got a great team working literally around the clock. I think I'm a better candidate. I think my experience as secretary of state gave me a depth and understanding about what the next president will face that, frankly, nobody else running on either side could have. And I think that what voters are looking for is a way out of their frustration. Yeah, people are angry. People are disappointed. People are worried. You know, what happened in the Great Recession was a body blow. I mean, 9 million people lost their jobs and 5 million houses were lost and $13 trillion and family wealth was wiped out. People haven't gotten a raise. They have been working but they don't feel like they are getting ahead. So they deserve — the American people deserve to be worried. But what I'm offering is a way forward. You know, once you get through the anger and the political attacks and all the rest of it, people have to ask themselves, who can do the most for me and my family? Who can protect our country? Who can get the economy going and incomes rising and make sure the Affordable Care Act works and get prescription drug costs down? I know how to do this and I'm ready. I'm experienced and I think I have got the best shot at becoming both the nominee and the next president. CAMEROTA: Secretary Clinton, we will be watching, of course, with great interest what unfolds over the next 12 hours. Thanks so much for taking time to be on NEW DAY. CLINTON: Thank you. Hope you feel better. Take care. CAMEROTA: Thank you. Thank you. That's so nice. I'm drinking tea and honey right now. Thanks so much.
MATTHEWS: Madam Secretary, thank you for joining us. It was quite a night last night and I was taken with your moment of candor there before the cameras when you said, you had a sigh of relief. Tell us about that sigh of relief and what it meant to you.CLINTON: Right. Oh, Chris, it meant the world to me. As we all remember, I was not successful in Iowa last time and I know how hard that caucus process is. So proud of our organization, our volunteers, all my supporters. Everybody said if there were a big turnout, that would advantage Senator Sanders. There was a big turnout, and we won. And now I'm in New Hampshire looking forward to the primary next Tuesday and continuing to make my case in this contest of ideas between me and the senator. MATTHEWS: Well, you know, "The New York Times" ran this story this morning that you were disappointed, and I think it's possible to be both disappointed and relieved. You could have been disappointed at 9:00 but very relieved at 11:00. I mean, the times change during the course as the results come in. Are both those possible? You thought you could have done better with your field operation but you're also glad you came out ahead? CLINTON: Look, Chris, I really believe that during the last few weeks leading up to the caucus, I could feel the energy building. It's a tough process and what I was seeing on the ground as people were telling me they were changing their minds, that they were supporting me, what my organizers were reporting, was all consistent that it was going to be close, but if we did our work, and we did, we would win. So I was thrilled by winning and getting that boost out of Iowa here in New Hampshire where I am in Senator Sanders' backyard, as you know, as a political expert of your many years, that New Hampshire votes for neighbors. And so I have to really get out there, make my case, which I intend to do this week. MATTHEWS: I just love the way you snuck that in. It's his backyard, therefore he has an advantage geographically and we shouldn't put too much stock into it. But let me ask you about this, because I'm looking at these polls. There's a range in the polling over the last couple weeks in New Hampshire and it is his back yard. Look at the map, it's Vermont and New Hampshire right next to each other, twin there. Between 6 and 33 points he's got a lead on you up there, and I wonder how much ground you can make in a week, because we only have a week now. CLINTON: I feel really good about my campaign in New Hampshire and I remember getting off the plane in New Hampshire after the Iowa caucuses last time where I did not win, and I was way behind going into what was then just five days before the primary. And the work that was done on my behalf, the people who came out to support me, the incredible excitement — I saw that today in Nashua. I got here, it was amazing, Chris. The level of enthusiasm, people who were with me before, people who were with President Obama in '08, everybody working so hard to support me, to get to that primary, to do everything we possibly can. We're not leaving anything on the ground. We're moving forward. And I think we'll do well. MATTHEWS: I think everybody should have been impressed. Maybe I wasn't as impressed as I should have been, but everybody should have been, about the way you handled New Hampshire last time around. You came off the loss in Iowa. You went out there and you would stand there — it was like Bill Clinton staying there until the last dog died. You were out there on that arena, I remember you standing in a, I think it was a field house, and you went on and on and on. It went on for five hours. It was incredible. It was a marathon, answering every single question of everyone in that room. It really was a physical — a marathon. Are you going to try to match that performance this time, that kind of "I can do this" thing? CLINTON: I'm going to do everything I can to get out there, to meet with folks here, to answer their questions. I'm really happy we've got a forum on CNN tomorrow night. We've got your MSNBC debate on Thursday night, which will give us a chance to reach a larger audience. But I'm going to be there day after day between now and Tuesday. I respect this primary process. I know how seriously people take it. And I just want them to understand what I'm offering, what I believe we can do. You know, ideas that sound good on paper but can't create results for people are just that, good ideas on paper. I have a track record of producing results. I know how to do all parts of this job. Because we're going to be voting for both a president and a commander in chief. And in New Hampshire, those two sides of this incredibly difficult job are really joined together. And I feel good about the opportunity I'll have to get out, meet with granite staters, make my case, and I'm going to do everything possible to get them to support me next Tuesday. MATTHEWS: I know you've been saying nice things about your only opponent now. It's really a battle since Martin O'Malley, Governor O'Malley has withdrawn. It's a two-person race. The only person, and I'm going to say this bluntly — the only person between a confirmed socialist who's calling for political revolution in this country, winning the nomination of the Democratic party, which has always been more moderate than that, is you. So when you saw that rally last night, the young people all around Senator Sanders, when he yelled revolution out there and they all applauded like mad, do you think that's something that is going to help in a general election, or are we looking at, what we used to call in the 60s, an NDC campaign — November doesn't count. We just want to win the party, we don't care about the general. You seem to be focused on the general. How do you beat a person who's coming along in the primaries, however, who's saying, I'm going to give you all the things you want, free tuition, more social security benefits without an increase in your taxes, healthcare from birth to death, all government paid. How do you compete with a revolution of promises, really? CLINTON: Well first, let me say, I am thrilled, too, that we've got young people getting active in the campaign on the Democratic side. I was very proud of the many, many young people working for me, volunteering for me, voting, caucusing for me in Iowa, and the ones I have here in New Hampshire, I'm just so impressed with. So that's a net good no matter what. I do think that we have an obligation to keep people focused on what's at stake in this election, and you got close to saying it, Chris. We can't let the Republicans rip away the progress we've made. We can't let them go back to trickle-down economics, repeal the affordable care act, we can't let them stack the supreme court for another generation against common sense kind of changes that we need. We've got to get back to the middle, we've got to get back to the big center, we've got to get back to solving problems. That's how we make progress in America. I am proud to be in a line of Democratic presidents who just got in there and fought it out, who got civil rights, who got an economy producing high incomes, who got, finally, the affordable care act, something we've been fighting for since Harry Truman. I know how hard this is and I totally appreciate how exciting it can be to be involved in a campaign that really just puts out these great big ideas. But I want folks to stop and think, no matter what age you are, OK, we agree on getting the economy going. We agree on raising incomes, we agree on combating climate change, we agree on universal coverage. Who has the track record? Who's gotten the results? Who can actually produce the kind of change you want for yourself and your family and for our country? So I'm very energized about this because I like a contest of ideas. That's what politics should be about. We're going to be talking about and arguing about issues on our side, they're going to keep insulting each other on the Republican side, but the goal for any sensible American has to be, do not turn the white house over to the Republicans in November. Do not turn the supreme court further over to their nominees. We can't let that happen. MATTHEWS: Well, of course, I think you're offering a lesson in civics and I wonder if we can do that in a couple weeks now. Look, the history of the Democratic party, your party, not Bernie Sanders, he's not a Democratic party member — your party has produced The New Deal. It produced, the progressive income tax came from the Democrats, from Wilson. Social security, the greatest anti-poverty program ever, came from Roosevelt. And Harry Truman started to fight for health care and civil rights and all these good things that led to the affordable care act. But in every case, you had to battle Republicans who voted against it to the last person. And it's always been a tough fight. You need 60 votes in the senate, you need, what is it, 218 in the house, and if you don't have it, nothing gets done. The Bernie people need to be taught, not him, he won't be taught — the kids behind him need to be told, this is how it works in our system. You can call for revolution, but it ain't going to happen. There isn't going to be a revolution. There's going to be an election, an inauguration, and then there's going to be a congress sitting with you you've got to do business with, no matter who gets elected. You don't have to worry about logic anymore, just, I'm going to have a revolution and pay for everything. CLINTON: Well, where I come out on this is, I don't think our country or the American people can wait. I don't think they can wait for better jobs with rising incomes, getting prescription drug costs down. I think people want to vote for somebody who is going to get in there on the first day, knows how to do the job, is prepared to do the job, and gets to work. And I will give everything I've got to make sure that we preserve the progress we've made, because you're right, it is hard fought. Our system is set up to make it difficult. Checks and balances, separation of powers — our founders knew that if we were going to survive as a great democracy that they were creating, we had to have a system that kept the passions at bay. We had to have people who were willing to roll up their sleeves and compromise. We couldn't have idealogues who were just hurling their rhetoric back and forth. We had to actually produce results. That hasn't changed since George Washington. We've got to produce results now because a democracy is a fragile organism, Chris. People have to believe they have a stake in it, that their voices count, that their votes count. But then they've got to see results from their investment in our democracy. Our democracy has to work better, our economy has to work better, our politics has to work better. That's what I know how to do and that's what we have to get done in this election. MATTHEWS: Madame secretary, unofficially, not on behalf of MSNBC or NBC, congratulations on last night and your much deserved relief and break a leg on Thursday night even if you're the only one in the chair. Thank you for joining us today. CLINTON: I'm going to be there. MATTHEWS: You said it, I believe you. Thank you. CLINTON: I'll be there. Bye-bye. MATTHEWS: Thank you.
BLITZER: The breaking news this hour. It's now official. Hillary Clinton has been declared the winner of the Iowa caucuses. She beat Bernie Sanders by a razor-thin margin just 0.2 of a percentage point. Her campaign claimed victory overnight but the Iowa Democratic Party has just issued the final results. They say Hillary Clinton is the winner of the Iowa caucuses. And Secretary Clinton is joining us now from Nashua, New Hampshire. Madam Secretary, thanks very much for joining us. What's your reaction to the official results now declaring you the winner of the Iowa caucuses? CLINTON: I am so thrilled, Wolf. I feel really good and very grateful to the team I had on the ground, to the tens of thousands of Iowans who volunteered, knocked on doors, came out and caucused last night. And I could feel the energy building in the weeks leading up to the caucus. I was out there, making my case about what I want to do and what I think our country must do to get real results with more jobs, rising incomes, build on the Affordable Care Act, deal with climate change, clean energy, defend our rights, all the things I feel passionate about. And I could just watch and, in fact, in that last week I had so many people come up to me and say that they had decided to support me and it could not have been better. It was a great, great night. BLITZER: You said last night you breathed a big sigh of relief, your words — a big sigh of relief. What did you mean by that? CLINTON: Well, as you recall, my luck was not that good last time around. And it was wonderful to win the caucus and to have that experience of all the hard work, the grassroots organizing pay off the way it did. Now we're here in New Hampshire and we are going to have a contest of ideas. I'm looking forward to the forum tomorrow night on CNN and then a debate Thursday night, here in New Hampshire, because I think that Democratic voters and other Americans want to know what are the principal differences between me and my friend and opponent, Senator Sanders. And I want to get that information out there. I think it's important people understand that good ideas are one thing but you got to know how to implement. You've got to have a record of getting results. And I'm taking my ideas and my record to the people of New Hampshire this week. BLITZER: The Sanders campaign says they won't have this debate Thursday night with you unless you agree to a subsequent debate before the New York primary in New York City. Are you willing to agree to that? CLINTON: Well, you know, Wolf, this is really hard to follow because, when we said we would do the debate, they came back with conditions. We met the conditions. Then they said they want different conditions. And we've tried to be very accommodating but, you know, we have agreed with everything that they have asked us to do. And I sure hope — we're in Bernie Sanders' backyard here in New Hampshire. I sure hope he intends to show up in his neighboring state and let the people of New Hampshire see us both on the debate stage. BLITZER: Well, just to press the point, the debate in New York City that they want, are you accepting that? CLINTON: No. We've accepted all of their conditions. We did that last week. And they keep trying to add new conditions, which, you know, raises questions about how ready or willing they are to debate here in New Hampshire. We met their conditions. We agreed to more debates, something that I wanted to do because I think it's great to debate and we're ready. I'm going to be there Thursday night. BLITZER: All right. Let's move on. The senator's campaign — they want to do not necessarily a recount but they want to check the voting in Iowa. Is that OK with you? CLINTON: You know, look, I — they — I can say that I believe the Democratic Party of Iowa ran a good caucus from everything that our people told me. There was an enormous turnout, which everybody said would tremendously favor Senator Sanders. If there are legitimate issues, both sides, I don't think the Democratic Party has any problems with that. But from everything we have learned and know, I won and I'm very proud of that. BLITZER: Back in 2008, as you well remember, you lost Iowa but then you came back to win New Hampshire. This time you won Iowa. Can you win New Hampshire one week from today? CLINTON: Well, I think it's certainly what I'm aiming for. I care a lot about this state. I view it as being the first-in-the-nation primary for a reason. I know that they tend to favor their neighbors. That's the pattern, the history of the primary. And Senator Sanders is a neighbor. But I think we will have a good contest, talking about what results we can produce, what our records have been, both in domestic policy, foreign policy, national security and I think the people of New Hampshire will get a chance to really evaluate both of us. And I feel good about my prospects. BLITZER: You described yourself in your speech last night as a progressive that gets things done. Are you suggesting Bernie Sanders — he may be a progressive but he can't get things done? CLINTON: I'm talking about my record. I'm talking about the Children's Health Insurance Program for 8 million kids. I'm talking about getting health care for National Guard members. I'm talking about helping to push through a treaty to lower nuclear weapons between us and the Russians when I was secretary of state. I'm talking about building the coalition against Iran to bring them to the negotiating table and so many other issues. I have a very long record of getting results for people. That's what I care about. You know, I am all for laying out our ideology, talking about our ideas. I think that's great and it gives you the direction that you want to head. But at the end of the day, what matters to me is that we move our country forward. We actually get more good jobs with rising incomes. We get equal pay for women. We actually begin to move toward early childhood education and paid family leave. And we are ready to really go into the rest of the 21st century with the kind of confidence and optimism that I think our country should be having. So I'm going to lay out my record, lay out my ideas and Senator Sanders can certainly lay out his own and we'll leave it up to the people of New Hampshire to decide what they think is the best choice for them and their families and the results they want to see for themselves in our country. BLITZER: As you know, according to the entrance polls in Iowa, Bernie Sanders did a lot better than you did with younger voters, younger men and even younger women. Why do you think is he doing so well with younger voters out there? CLINTON: I'm thrilled to see so many young people get into the political process and I was very proud of all the young people who worked for me, volunteered for me, supported me. That's all to the good and it's great for the Democratic Party. But I'm going to have some work to do to reach out to young voters, maybe first-time voters, who have to make a tough decision as they evaluate who should be our president, our commander in chief, and I intend to do that, laying out my case, where we contrast on the issues, what I think can be done to get college to be affordable. I think my plan is going to really help the people who need it most without ballooning costs. I'm going to set forth my plan to refinance student debt, a problem I hear throughout New Hampshire and the country and why I think my plan will help more young people really get started with their lives. The emphasis I want to make on small business, my call that young people join our campaign and then be part of making us the clean energy superpower of the 21st century. And let's defend our rights. I am very proud that I got the endorsement of the Planned Parenthood Action Fund, that I got the endorsement of the Human Rights Campaign, that I got the endorsement of The Brady Campaign and Gabby Giffords and Mark Kelly and so many others, because they know me and they know what I have done. They know the kind of leader I am. And I want young people to know that as well. BLITZER: As you know, Marco Rubio did rather well, coming in at an impressive third place in the Iowa Republican caucuses just behind Donald Trump and Ted Cruz. Ted Cruz won Iowa. What do you think about the possibility, if you do get the Democratic nomination, of running against Senator Rubio in a general election? CLINTON: You know, Wolf, I'm not thinking that far ahead. My timeframe is next Tuesday and the primary in New Hampshire and then I'll go on to the caucuses in Nevada and the primary at the end of the month in South Carolina and then to the states that lie ahead. I'm going let the Republicans, you know, decide who their nominee will be. I will be prepared to run against and win, no matter who they nominate. I think, as everybody is well aware, I am pretty battle tested. It's important to have gone through this, to know what the Republicans will do. They're already running $6 million of ads against me along with their, you know, Wall Street buddies. And so they know who they don't want to be the Democratic nominee. And I take that as perversely flattering because they also know that I mean what I say and I'll do what I have said, to make sure that they don't ever wreck our economy again. So I'm going take them on as I have over the years and then, when I win, I will certainly reach out, work with them and find common ground wherever we can. BLITZER: Madam Secretary, thanks very much for joining us. Congratulations on your win in Iowa. CLINTON: Thank you so much, Wolf. Great to talk to you again. BLITZER: Thank you.
COOPER: And welcome back to the CNN Democratic Presidential Town Hall at the Derry Opera House in New Hampshire. Thanks very much for being with us. You heard from Senator Bernie Sanders. Please welcome the former secretary of State, Hillary Clinton. [applause] Please. CLINTON: Hello. COOPER: Welcome. CLINTON: Thank you very much. COOPER: So you've obviously had a pretty incredible several past couple of days. Congratulations on winning in Iowa. New Hampshire has always been good to the Clintons. How does it feel out there? CLINTON: It feels great. I've had just an amazing time. We landed in the middle of the night from Iowa still pretty pumped up about winning there, and then got to work the next day. And I'm seeing a lot of old friends, meeting a lot of new people. I have an uphill climb and I'm going to climb as high and hard as I can because I want to make my case for the people of New Hampshire. As you said, they're people that I feel very close to. They've been good to my husband, to me, my family. But what's most important is the first in the nation primary. It truly is a great opportunity to get out there, explain what you want to do as president, present your ideas, and get vetted by the people of New Hampshire. COOPER: Bernie Sanders, just a short time ago, said he is the underdog here. Your campaign has said, you know, he comes from neighboring Vermont, you guys are down in the polls. Do you feel you do better when you're fighting from behind? CLINTON: You know, I don't know. I... COOPER: Does it bring out something in you? CLINTON: Well, the intensity of the experience and the importance of trying to convey what's at stake in this election, because to me obviously Tuesday is a really big deal with the primary. But the goal has to be to prevent the Republicans from getting back into the White House and undoing all the progress that has been made under President Obama. [applause] And so I — I'm very proud of the campaign that Senator Sanders and I are running. I mean, we really have focused on issues. We share a lot of the same big progressive goals, but we have different ways of going about them. We bring different experiences. But we are contrasting on issues, compared to the Republicans who, I think, are contrasting on insults. And I think it's a better contest where we can take our ideas to groups like this throughout New Hampshire, get questions, have people vet them, and then let the voters make up their minds. COOPER: You've talked about progressive values. Earlier in the day Senator Sanders was asked if you were progressive. He said some days. Are you really a progressive? In the past you have said you plead guilty to being a moderate. CLINTON: Well, you know, you asked me this question in the first debate, right? COOPER: I did. And it's coming up again today. CLINTON: And I said that I'm a progressive who likes to get things done. And I was somewhat amused today that Senator Sanders has set himself up to be the gatekeeper on who is the progressive because under the definition that was flying around on Twitter and statements by the campaign, Barack Obama would not be a progressive, Joe Biden would not be a progressive, Jeanne Shaheen would not be a progressive, even the late, great Senator Paul Wellstone would not be a progressive. So I'm not going to let that bother me. I know where I stand. I know who stands with me. I know what I've done. But I don't think it helps for the senator to be making those kinds of comparisons because clearly we all share a lot of the same hopes and aspirations for our country that we want to see achieved. And I don't think it's appropriate that, you know, if Planned Parenthood endorses me or the Human Rights Campaign endorses me, you know, they're thrown out of the progressive wing and put into the establishment. That's just not anything we need to do. Let's have a good contest of ideas. Let's contrast where we stand. And that's what I intend to do for the next couple of days. COOPER: It would obviously be historic if you were elected president, first female president. CLINTON: You think so? [laughter] [applause] COOPER: I've studied a little bit of history. But it seems like young women aren't rallying to this potentially historic moment. And I say this in Iowa, among women under 30, Senator Sanders beat you by 70 points. Why do you think that is? CLINTON: That's amazing. Yes. Look, you know, I was very fortunate to have a great team of young people, men and women, supporting me. But I accept the fact that I have work to do to convey what I stand for, what I've accomplished, what I want to do for young people in our country. COOPER: Why do you think it is? That they're... CLINTON: But I — well, you know, I don't really know, Anderson. I think — here's what I want young people to know. They don't have to be for me, I'm going to be for them. It doesn't really matter. [applause] If they are not supporting me, I will be their president, I will do everything I can to give them the opportunities they deserve. As I speak with young people across the country in Iowa, New Hampshire, and elsewhere, I do sense this real feeling of being somehow disadvantaged, put on the wrong side of American opportunity. And I understand that. I mean the student debt problems, the feeling that the jobs that are out there are not producing the kind of income or opportunity that young people believe they should be able to get. But at the same time I'm so impressed by the level, the intensity of commitment of this generation to you know really going after discrimination, going after racism and sexism and the kind of abuses that LGBT community members have, looking for ways to bring more justice in the economy and the environment, fighting climate change. So I'm impressed with them. And I'm going to do everything I can to reach out and to explain why good ideas on paper are important. But you've got to be able to translate them into action to get results for people. I have a lot experience doing that. I think I can deliver positive change for young people in our country. And I hope to have the chance to win their support. COOPER: What's wrong with a revolution? CLINTON: Well, that's for Sen. Sanders to explain because that certainly is the core of his message to young people. I have a different take on it. I think the progress that we have made, and particularly the Democratic Party has made, has been hard fought for, hard won and must be defended. So I want to defend the Affordable Care Act. It is one of the great accomplishments, not only of this president, but of the Democratic Party going back to Harry Truman. [applause] The Republicans are... [applause] You know, the Republicans are determined to repeal it. And they tried 62 times just to turn it back to the insurance companies. Sen. Sanders and I share the same goal. We want to get to universal health care coverage. Before it was called Obamacare it was called Hillarycare, as you remember. COOPER: I remember. CLINTON: I fought really hard. The insurance companies and the drug companies spent millions against me. I know what it's like to go up against the status quo and special interests. So when President Obama succeeded, I was thrilled. I don't agree with Sen. Sanders that we should start over, that we should throw our country into a contentious national debate about health care again. We're at 90 percent coverage. I'm going to fix what needs to be fixed. We're going to move from 90 to 100, which is a lot easier to get to than starting at zero to get to 100. So we have a difference. And I think that... [applause] ... is the difference. COOPER: I want you to meet some of the folks in our audience. CLINTON: Sure. COOPER: This is Dave Skinell. He's a high school English teacher from Manchester. He says he's undecided. David? CLINTON: Hi, David. QUESTION: Hi, Sec. Clinton. You — the next president will have as many as three Supreme Court appointments to make. CLINTON: Right. QUESTION: I'm wondering beyond abortion are there any issues on which you would impose or assert a litmus test. And if your answer is no, aren't certain critical issues like marriage equality, campaign finance just so vital to what we believe in as Democrats that you would have to know the answer as to how these justices would rule before you make the nomination? CLINTON: Well, I'll tell you what, Dave. I do have a litmus test. I have a bunch of litmus tests because I agree with you. The next president could get as many as three appointments. You know one of the many reasons why we can't turn the White House over to the Republicans again is because of the Supreme Court. I'm looking for people who understand the way the real world works, who don't have a kneejerk reaction to support business, to support the idea that you know money is speech, that gutted the Voting Rights Act. I voted for the reauthorization of the Voting Rights Act when I was in the Senate. It passed 98 to nothing based on a very extensive set of hearings and research. Supreme Court comes along. They substitute their judgment for the Congress, signed by George W. Bush. That is one of our problems. They have a view that I just fundamentally disagree with about what the way we have to keep the balance of power in our society is. So they have given way too much power to corporations. They have given Citizens United, the biggest gift to the Koch brothers, Karl Rove and all of those folks whose values I don't share, and who are doing everything they can to try to turn the clock back. We have to preserve marriage equality. We have to go further to end discrimination against the LGBT community... [applause] We've got to make sure... [applause] We've got to make sure to preserve Roe v. Wade, not let it be nibbled away or repealed. We've got work to do... [applause] And here's how I think about it, because when I was a senator, I had to vote on Supreme Court justices. I'm looking for people who are rooted in the real world, who know that part of the genius of our system, both economic and government, is this balance of power. If it gets too far out of whack, so that business has too much power, any branch of the government has too much power, the delicate balance that makes up our political system and the broad-based prosperity we should be working for in our economy is the worse off for it. So I have very strong feelings about what I'll be looking for if I am given the honor of appointing somebody to the Supreme Court. [applause] COOPER: OK. [applause] I want you to meet Mr. Jim Kinhan. He's a Democrat who says he is supporting you. JIM KINHAN: Hello, Madam Secretary. CLINTON: Thank you. KINHAN: I'm very pleased to see you. This may come a little bit from right field, this may seem, but it's very personal to me and resonates probably with many other people who are elderly dealing with health issues. The question is coming to me as a person who is walking with colon cancer. And I'm walking with colon cancer with the word terminal very much in my vocabulary, comfortably and spiritually. But I wonder what leadership you could offer within an executive role that might help advance the respectful conversation that is needed around this personal choice that people may make, as we age and deal with health issues or be the caregivers of those people, to help enhance and — their end of life with dignity. CLINTON: Well, first of all, thank you for being here. Thank you so much for being part of this great New Hampshire primary process and thank you for support. And I really appreciate your asking the question. And I have to tell you, this is the first time I've been asked that question. KINHAN: I — I figured that. CLINTON: Yes. I — I really — I really... KINHAN: Maybe any candidate. CLINTON: And I thank you for it, because we need to have a conversation in our country. There are states, as you know... KINHAN: Yes. CLINTON: — that are moving to open up the opportunity without criminal liability for people to make this decision, in consultation by their families, even, in some cases, with medical professionals. But the issue is whether the medical professionals want to be involved or just be counselors. So it is a crucial issue that people deserve to understand from their own ethical, religious, faith-based perspective. So here's how I think about it. I want — I want, as president, to try to catalyze that debate because I — I believe you're right, this is going to become an issue more and more... KINHAN: Exactly. CLINTON: — often. We are, on the good side, having many people live longer, but often, then, with very serious illnesses that they can be sustained on, but at some point, don't want to continue with the challenges that poses. So I don't have any easy or glib answer for you. I think I would want to really immerse myself in the — the — the ethical writings, the health writings, the scientific writings, the religious writings. I know some other countries, the Netherlands and others, have a quite open approach. I'd like to know what their experience has been. Because we — we have to be sure that nobody is coerced, nobody is under duress. And that is a difficult line to draw. So I thank you — I thank you so much for raising this really important absolutely critical question that we're all going to have to do some thinking about. KINHAN: Thank you [inaudible]. [applause] COOPER: I think this is Michael Feel. Michael is a married father of one. He says he's undecided. He's learning — leaning toward Senator Sanders. Michael? CLINTON: Hi, Michael. MICHAEL FEEL: Hi, Secretary Clinton. As senator and as secretary of State, you have a history of interventionist foreign policy that is troubling to many Democratic voters, including myself. As a voter who is opposed to the United States being the world's policeman, can you assure me that as president, you would not expand our military involvement abroad? CLINTON: No, I can't, Michael. I mean I — I'd like to be able to say I could, but here's what I can say. I have learned and have been, you know, really in the crucible of making a lot of hard decisions over the last years. And military force must always be a last resort not a first choice. That is one of the biggest differences between me and the Republicans. I worked very hard as secretary of State to do what I could diplomatically to avoid conflict. That's why I worked to get the coalition together to impose sanctions in Iran, so that we could get them to the negotiating table, in order to test whether we could get an agreement to put a nuclear weapons agreement in place. I did that in large measure motivated by my deep concern that the absence of effective diplomacy might very well have sparked an arms race among some very unstable nations in the region, and maybe even led to conflict. I will do everything I possibly can to avoid sending American troops abroad, getting us involved in military conflicts. But I can't in good conscious stand here and tell you that there would never be any circumstances in the time that I served as President where it very well might be in America's best vital national security interest. So I want to be honest with you. I will do what I can, I will stand against adventurism, ill thought out missions. I will not send American combat troops to Iraq or Syria. That is off the table. That would be a terrible mistake. We will continue to use Special Forces, and we have to because of the kinds of threats we face. You know, the network of terrorist organizations — not just ISIS, but others who are part of this unfortunate network that stretches from North Africa to South Asia — pose serious threats to friends, allies, and partners, as well as to ourselves. And we've got to keep our country safe, and we have to work with the rest of the world to try to defeat ISIS, to end that terrorist threat. So I will be a very careful, deliberate decision maker when facing hard choices, because I know what's at stake. And I know you can understand why there can't be from me anyway a blanket statement. But I want to assure you I will be transparent, I will be open, and I will explain to the American people if any occasion arises where we do have to take military action to protect ourselves or our close friends and partners. COOPER: I want to follow up the — yesterday on Capitol Hill the Senate Armed Services Committee, the Commander of the Marine Corps said that he thinks, and I quote, all eligible and qualified men and women should register for the draft, talking about Selective Service. Do you think women should also have to register for Selective Service, like men? CLINTON: You know the first time I heard that yesterday and here's the reasoning, as best I, I understand from listening to the testimony excerpts. That, if we're going to open combat positions to qualified women so that they can compete to be Army Rangers, they can compete to be Navy Seals, they can compete to be Infantry Officers in the Marines, then we have expanded the definition of the all-volunteer military. I, I have to think about whether I think it's necessary to go as far as our military officers are recommending. You know, from my perspective, the all-volunteer military has worked, and we should not do anything that undermines it because it has provided a solid core of people who are willing to serve our country. The idea of having everybody register concerns me a little bit unless we have a better idea of where that's going to come out. Where I want people to register, I want every young person to register at the age of 18 to be able to vote automatically, and I think if — if we had, you know, if we had a system like that I would, I would be very, very pleased about it. I have a hard time imagining the kind of national emergency that would require the use of the Selective Service system. So I just have to be better informed about why they're making this recommendation. COOPER: I want you to meet Rebecca Hutchinson. She's a former State Representative in New Hampshire. She says she's undecided and she's got a question for you. CLINTON: Hi, Rebecca. REBECCA HUTCHINSON: Thank you. I feel in a way I sort of have a follow-up to the previous question. You clearly have very impressive foreign policy experience, and I've heard you point out to us that President Obama chose you and trusted you to be his Secretary of State. But I get stuck when I think about you voted for the Iraq war, which you now say was a mistake. What have you learned since that vote that could give me confidence that you wouldn't make a mistake of that magnitude again? CLINTON: Oh, I think that's a very fair question. You know, I did make a mistake and I admitted that I made a mistake. And in large measure that mistake really arose from the Bush administration's approach to what they thought they could accomplish in Iraq. The very explicit appeal that President Bush made before announcing the invasion that getting that vote would be a strong piece of leverage in order to finish the inspections. And he made that comment. And the U.N. Inspector Hans Blix said, give us the time, we will find out. Give us the hammer over their head, namely the vote, and we will be able to find out what they still have in terms of WMD. And the Bush administration didn't give them the time. And that was a breach of faith, in my view. But you know I gave them the vote, in large measure because I thought that would give us the time and we would find out, short of invasion. Turned out not to be. And I really regret that that's the way President Bush proceeded. That would not be something you would have to worry about with me. If I tell you we're going to do diplomacy, we're going to hang tough, we're going to get answers, that's exactly what we will do. COOPER: I want you to meet Sean Burke. He's a Democrat from Derry, says he is a supporter of yours. Sean? CLINTON: Hi, Sean. QUESTION: Hey. Once you become the nominee and got elected, how are you going to defend yourself against right-wing attacks? CLINTON: Well, Sean, I had a lot of practice. [laughter and applause] So I could laugh up here, but it's not easy. It is a brutal experience. And when it first started happening to me back in the early 1990s when I was working on health care. And you know I was just unrecognizable to myself. What talk radio was saying, what Republican members of Congress and their allies were saying. I was just stunned. I could not understand how they got away with it. And I have had to learn to take criticism seriously, but not personally. And by that I mean this. The very fair question from Rebecca. People ask you questions or criticize you, think about it seriously. There are lessons to be learned, often from people who don't agree with you. But don't take it personally so that it just paralyzes you, literally stops you in your tracks. And so now that I've been through this for so many years, Sean, my understanding of the political tactics that the other side uses is pretty well versed. They play to keep. They play to destroy. They are constantly doing whatever they can to win. And they have a history now going back, you know, 35-36 years of going after people who they believe they can't otherwise stop unless they engage in that negative attack. So right now, for example, a couple of hedge fund billionaires have started a super PAC to run ads against me. Karl Rove has you know solicited money from Wall Street to run ads against me. I view that as perversely flattering because clearly they know I mean what I say and I will do what I say. And I will stand in their way and I will stop them from perpetuating an agenda on America that is bad for our democracy, bad for our economy, bad for our societies. So I know I have to keep defending against them. But I'm the one who has the experience to do that. It's unlike anything you've ever gone through to be the subject of tens of millions of dollars of untrue, terrible attacks. And now the Koch brothers say they're going to spend $750 million to defeat the Democratic nominee. I'm still standing, and I will be standing. So don't worry about that. [applause] COOPER: Let me just simply follow up. You mentioned attacks on the early 1990s. CLINTON: Right. COOPER: Do you still believe there's a vast right-wing conspiracy? CLINTON: Don't you? [laughter] COOPER: I'm asking you. CLINTON: Yes. It's gotten even better funded. You know they brought in some new multibillionaires to pump the money in. And look, these guys play for keeps. They want to control our country. Senator Sanders and I agree on that completely. They want to rig the economy so they continue to get richer and richer, they could care less about income inequality. They salve their consciences by giving big money to philanthropy, and, you know, getting great pictures of them standing in front of whatever charity they donated to. But make no mistake, they want to destroy unions. They want to go after any economic interests that they don't believe they can control. They want to destroy our balance of power. They want to go after our political system and fill it with people who will do their bidding. I said today in Dover, you know, I don't think all of the Republican candidates are so ill-informed about climate change that they say they don't know because they're not scientists. They're just doing the bidding of the Koch brothers. They're told don't you dare say climate change is real because we're in the fossil fuel business. So this is exactly what they are up to. And, yes... [applause] ... it is probably — look, at this point it's probably not correct to say it's a conspiracy because it's out in the open. You know, there is no doubt about what they're doing and who the players are and what they're trying to achieve. And they're shopping among the Republican candidates to figure out who among them will most likely do their bidding. So just know what we're up against because it's real and we're going to beat it. But it's going to take everybody working together. [applause] COOPER: I want you to meet Alison Pyott. She's an independent torn between you and Senator Sanders. CLINTON: Hi, Alison. ALISON PYOTT: I'm sensing a theme here. First, thank you so much for all you've done for our country and for women. CLINTON: Thank you. PYOTT: My question is the number of factors, some you have just described, have eroded trust in you. What will you do to regain that trust, engender trust in Americans and me? CLINTON: Well, thank you for starting by saying it's related to what I just said. And I acknowledge this as personally painful as it is. When you have been subjected to the level, the velocity of attacks that come every day, even if there is no factual basis to it, it's just normal for people to say, gosh, there has got to be something, why do they keep saying this and then we do that. And, you know, I testify for 11 hours, there's nothing to Benghazi, they don't give it up, they keep coming after it. So I know that I have to really demonstrate as clearly as I can who I am, what I stand for, and what I've always done. I've always been guided by the same values. I have always listened to people. And I've always worked as hard as I could to produce results for people. So when I ran for the Senate the first time and I was out there and, you know, people were barraging, I was running first against Rudy Giuliani and all of that. And I was able to just keep going and tell people, here's who I am, here's what I do, I want to do this with you. And I won. And then since years later when I ran, I got a higher percentage. And then I did have, as you all remember, a really tough campaign against then-Senator Obama. We saw each other very up close and personal. And he wins and turns and asks me to be his secretary of state, because he trusts me, he trusts my judgment, he trusts my experience. So all I can do is to just get up every day and work to do what I believe our country needs, find ways to help people, whether it's on mental health or addiction or autism or student loans, whatever it might be. And I trust the American people. I trust the people of New Hampshire to see my lifetime of work and service and to sort out all of the static and to know that I will work my heart out for you. And that's what I hope you will understand. [applause] COOPER: I want to welcome Rabbi Jonathan Spira-Savett. He's an independent, says he's undecided about his vote. Rabbi? CLINTON: Hello, Rabbi. RABBI JONATHAN SPIRA-SAVETT: Hello. Another rabbi, Rabbi Simcha Bunem taught that every person has to have two pockets and in each pocket they have to carry a different note. And the note in one pocket says the universe was created for me. And in the other pocket the note says I am just dust and ashes. And I want you to take a moment and think about what you would tell us about your two pockets. How do you cultivate the ego, the ego that we all know you must have, a person must have to be the leader of the free world, and also the humility to recognize that we know that you can't be expected to be wise about all the things that the president has to be responsible for? CLINTON: Another absolutely wonderful question. Thank you, Rabbi. I think about this a lot. Um, I feel very fortunate that I am a person of faith, that I was raised in my church and that I have had to deal and struggle with a lot of these issues about ambition and humility, about service and self-gratification, all of the human questions that all of us deal with, but when you put yourself out into the public arena, I think it's incumbent upon you to be as self- conscious as possible. This is hard for me. You know, I never thought I'd be standing on a stage here asking people to vote for me for president. I always wanted to be of service. I met my husband, who was such a natural, knew exactly what he wanted to do. I was happy to support him while I worked in the Children's Defense Fund and legal services and taught law, and, you know, had our daughter. I never thought I would do this. And so I have had to come to grips with how much more difficult it often is for me to talk about myself than to talk about what I want to do for other people, or to tell stories about, you know, the man I met in Rochester who — whose AIDS medicine is no longer affordable. And that — that can grip me and make me feel like there's something I can do about that. So I'm constantly trying to balance how do I assume the mantle of a position as essentially august as president of the United States not lose track of who I am, what I believe in and what I want to do to serve? I have that dialogue at least, you know, once a day in some setting or another. And I don't know that there is any ever absolute answer, like, OK, universe, here I am, watch me roar or oh, my gosh, I can't do it, it's just overwhelming, I have to retreat. It's that balance that I keep to try to find in my life that I want to see back in our country. And it will be something that I continue to talk about with a — you know, with a group of faith advisers who are close to me. I get a scripture lesson every morning from a minister that I have a really close personal relationship with. And, you know, it just gets me grounded. He gets up really early to send it to me. So, you know, there it is in my in box at 5:00 a.m.. I have friends who are rabbis who send me notes, give me readings that are going to be discussed in services. So I really appreciate all that incoming. And the final thing I would say, because again, it's not anything I've ever talked about this much publicly, everybody knows I — I have lived a very public life for the last 25 or so years. And so I've had to be in public dealing with some very difficult issues and personal issues, political, public issues. And I read a, um, a treatment of the prodigal son parable by the Jesuit Henri Nouwen, who I think is a magnificent writer of spiritual and theological concerns. And I — I read that parable and there was a line in it that became just a lifeline for me. And it basically is practice the discipline of gratitude. So regardless of how hard the days are, how difficult the decisions are, be grateful. Be grateful for being a human being, being part of the universe. Be grateful for your limitations. Know that you have to reach out to have more people be with you, to support you, to advise you, listen to your critics, answer the questions. But at the end, be grateful. Practice the discipline of gratitude. And that has helped me enormously. [applause] COOPER: We're going to have more questions from the audience for Secretary Clinton when we come back. We'll take a short break. [commercial break] COOPER: Welcome back to CNN's Democratic Presidential Town Hall at the Derry Opera House in New Hampshire. We are here with former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton. I want to play a piece of video... CLINTON: OK. COOPER: ...from Senator Sanders the other night in Iowa after the votes came in, and get you to respond. CLINTON: OK. [begin video clip] SANDERS: We do not represent the interests of the billionaire class, Wall Street, or corporate America. We don't want their money. We will... And I am very proud to tell you that we are the only candidate on the Democratic side without a Super PAC. And the reason that we have done so well here in Iowa, the reason I believe we're going to do so well in New Hampshire, and in the other states that follow, the reason is the American people are saying no to a rigged economy. [end video clip] COOPER: We got a number of questions, even from people who support your policies, who say they do believe that you represent the interests of Wall Street and corporate America. How do you respond? CLINTON: Well, look, that's just not the case. And I did represent New York, obviously. There was no doubt that I took on a lot of what was going down on Wall Street, including calling them out on the mortgage issues, calling for a Consumer Financial Protection Bureau even before we got one created, calling for changes in CEO pay. But I honestly think that the best answer to this is the fact that everybody that I know who looks at what's happening in this campaign sees the same thing. The Wall Street interests, the money interests, the Republican political interests are spending a lot of money to try to defeat me. So I just find it kind of a strange argument. I happen to agree with Sen. Sanders. I'm not just going after Wall Street though. I think that's too narrow a target. I think we need to go after a company like Johnson Controls that is trying to avoid paying taxes after all of us bailed it out by pretending to sell itself in a so-called inversion in Europe. It's a perversion. It should be stopped. I want to go after the hedge funds that have bought up drug companies, you know Valeant Pharmaceuticals, Turing Pharmaceuticals, taking drugs that have been around a long time and upping the price. So I take seriously the obligation that I would have as president once again to try to get the deck un-stacked, to get the odds favoring the average American again... [applause] And but I just have to — I have to respectfully say, I think Sen. Sanders' target is too small, I really do. You know I respect him going after the big banks. I agree with him. No bank is too big to fail. No executive to powerful to jail. But we actually passed the process to be able to take on banks that pose excessive risk in our financial system in Dodd-Frank. So let's know the next president has to implement, but doesn't have to achieve that. Here's what I want to do. I want to go after all the other culprits. It wasn't just the big banks. It was the insurance company AIG. It was the investment bank Lehman Brothers. It was Countrywide Mortgage. It was Wachovia. There were a lot of bad actors. And if all you do is look over here, I'm telling you, they're going to be over there in the shadow banking sector just cooking up all kinds of ways to once again put our economy at risk. So I've got no argument that we need to take on these vested interests. I just have a wider group that I think we need to go after, from pharmaceuticals... [applause] ... insurance companies, shadow banking and other corporations that I think are undermining our ecoomy. And frankly they are undermining our democracy. This Johnson Controls thing really infuriates me. We bailed them out. The Republicans wanted the auto industry to just fail. They didn't care about the millions of jobs. Barack Obama and the Democratic Congress gave them a bailout. It turned out to be a good deal. All of us paid for it. They paid back the Treasury. So we didn't lose any money and we saved millions of jobs. And the auto industry just had a great year. Johnson Controls was one of those begging for the bailout. And now they're not going to pay their taxes? We're going to go right after that. That is absolutely wrong. [applause] And we need to be focused on getting a fix for that. [applause] COOPER: One of the things... [applause] One of the things that Sen. Sanders points to and a lot of your critics point to is you made three speeches for Goldman Sachs. You were paid $675,000 for three speeches. Was that a mistake? I mean was that a bad error in judgment? CLINTON: Look. I made speeches to lots of groups. I told them what I thought. I answered questions. COOPER: But did you have to be paid $675,000? CLINTON: Well, I don't know. That's what they offered, so...[laughter] You know every secretary of State that I know has done that. COOPER: But [inaudible] for office they're not running for an office... CLINTON: Well, I didn't know... COOPER: ... have known. CLINTON: To be honest I wasn't — I wasn't committed to running. I didn't know whether I would or not. COOPER: You didn't think you were going to run for president again? CLINTON: I didn't. You know when I was secretary of State several times I said you know I think I'm done. And you know, so many people came to me, started talking to me. The circumstances, the concerns I had about the Republicans taking back the White House, because I think they wrecked what we achieved in the 1990s with 23 million new jobs and incomes going up for everybody. I did not want to see that happen again. I want to defend President Obama's accomplishments and the progress we've made. I want to go further. So yes, I was convinced. But you know anybody who knows me who thinks that they can influence me, name anything they've influenced me on. Just name one thing. I'm out here every day saying I'm going to shut them down, I'm going after them. I'm going to jail them if they should be jailed. I'm going to break them up. I mean they're not giving me very much money now. I can tell you that much. [laughter] Fine with me. I'm proud to have 90 percent of my donations from small donors and 60 percent, the highest ever, from women, which I'm really, really glad about. [applause] COOPER: So just to be clear, that's not something you regret, those three speeches, that money? CLINTON: No, I don't, because, you know, I don't feel that I paid any price for it and I am very clear about what I will do and they're on notice. COOPER: I want to see if Chris Lopez is here. Chris, there you are. Chris is an independent with a question for Secretary Clinton. She says she's undecided, I should point out. Chris? CLINTON: Hi, Chris. CHRIS LOPEZ: Hi. Thanks for taking my question. I see a lot of hypocrisy in this country when I have a really hard time getting the medicine I need and yet it's really easy to get alcohol. What will you do to decriminalize marijuana so people — so I and people like me can get the pain and spasm relief that we need? CLINTON: I will do a lot, Chris, because we have an opportunity to do much more with respect to research into marijuana, what it can do to help people with the kinds of conditions you've just briefly described. I want to move it from a Schedule I drug to a Schedule II so that we can begin to do more research. The NIH and a lot of universities can begin to try to find out. Because I want you to know what we know from science. But I also want you to be able to use it while we're doing the research. And so many states, as you know, have moved to provide legal protection for the use of medical marijuana. I support that. I think that the states are the laboratories of our democracy. We should be learning about what works, what doesn't work. Different states have actually listed the kind of illnesses and conditions that it can be used for. Are they right? We don't know. That's why we have got to do the research. I also want you to know what dosage is right, what interacts with the other medication you're taking. I want to accelerate this because I have no doubt that there are very real benefits for people. We know in chemotherapy, we know from other conditions in using the right amount of the right kind of marijuana. I just want to make sure it's the right amount and the right kind. That's why I want to get that research up and going as quickly as possible. But you said something else which I think is really important. We can't be here in New Hampshire and not talk about the addiction problem in New Hampshire. Not talk about the fact that there have been more deaths by overdoses than car crashes in this state. Not talk about the lives that are being destroyed, the people that I meet, the grandmothers raising their grandchildren because they've lost their children. I just left a rally in Manchester, and a woman grabbed my hand and she said, I just lost my son to an overdose. So I have been working with elected officials like Senator Shaheen, like Governor Hassan, like Governor Shumlin of Vermont, who supports me, to try to figure out how do we put together a new approach, a new law enforcement approach so that first-time, low-level drug users are not sent to jail but instead we have more treatment and recovery programs? There are 23 million people who need help in our country, both alcohol and drugs. There are 10 percent of the kind of spaces that they need to take care of those people. So we've got to work on law enforcement. We have to work on doctors to understand better when they prescribe opioids, which is often the first step towards heroin. We have to have every police department equipped with naloxone, which is the antidote to reverse overdose, save lives here in New Hampshire. We've got to put more money into this. So all of this to me fits together. You deserve answers about marijuana and we deserve more treatment for people who are addicted to drugs and alcohol for other kinds of challenges. So that's what I would like to do. [applause] COOPER: I want you to meet — this is Julie Carnigan, she's from Windham. Julie? CLINTON: Hi. JULIE CARNIGAN: Hi. Thank you for taking my question. I'm the proud mother of five girls, two of my own, three step- daughters. And unfortunately they are all "feeling the Bern." And I would like to know what you would do to convince them to vote for you. CLINTON: How old are they? CARNIGAN: They're in their — 21, 22, and a couple of 23s and a 25-year-old. [laughter] CLINTON: Well, first of all, tell them I'm glad they're interested in politics, and I really mean that. I want them to be involved. I want them to feel like I felt when I was that age, some years ago, and getting excited and interested in politics for the first time. I also want them to take a look at my record, what I have done my entire life, starting as a young lawyer working for the Children's Defense Fund, taking on the problem of juveniles incarcerated with adults in South Carolina, trying to gather information to end segregated academies in the South. I want them to know that I was a legal services lawyers, standing up for equality under the law, defending people's rights because I believe passionately that those of us who have the opportunity to serve should serve. And then I hope they will look at what I have accomplished from, you know, starting the Children's Health Insurance Program that insures eight million kids, looking at ways to try to be smart in reforming our adoption and foster care system, with very partisan Republicans when I was First Lady. Getting healthcare for our National Guard. Helping to negotiate and implement a treaty to reduce nuclear weapons. A long list. And the reason I say that is I think it's very important that, as people move toward the primary on Tuesday, whatever your age, you really think about what someone is proposing and what their record is about getting it done. And as I've said and I mean it absolutely, I have the highest respect for Senator Sanders. But as the "Concord Monitor" said today in its writing about this, you know, it's, it's very hard to see how any of his proposals could ever be achievable. So I don't want to over promise. We've got too much of that. I want to tell people what I will do. I want to be specific because I do want to — to go back to the question I was asked earlier — recreate the trust that seems to have been splintered in America. We need to set big goals again. I am all for that. I have big, ambitious goals. Affordable college, early childhood education, making sure that we are on the path to paid family leave, all of which will help your daughters. But I also want them to hold me accountable. I want them to say, OK, how's that actually going to happen? What do we have to do to make it? We've got to get 60 votes to break a filibuster in the Senate. Nancy Pelosi has said, we're not going to revisit healthcare. We're going to stick with the Affordable Care Act. That's exactly where I am. We're going to improve it. Because I am somebody who wants to actually produce a real difference in people's lives. I am a progressive who gets results. And I will be a progressive President who gets results. And the final thing I would say is, it is still the case that there are challenges and obstacles to young women's ambitions. And I'm going to try to break the highest and hardest glass ceiling. I hope it splinters completely and, and I hope for your daughters it opens doors that might not be open right now, regardless of whether any of them ever do any politically. But in their lives, their profession, how they're treated. I hope it does give them more of a sense of empowerment. That's what I want for my daughter and my amazing granddaughter, and that's what I want for your daughters. COOPER: [inaudible]. Just as we did with Senator Sanders, we've talked about a lot of important policy issues. I just want to ask kind of a couple of personal questions just for voters to get... CLINTON: You don't think they know everything? COOPER: Well, I don't know. We'll see about that. It's interesting to me, I mean you have — as you said, you have been one of the most famous women in the world now for, for decades. You have no anonymity. If you could be anonymous for just one day, what would you do? CLINTON: I used to do this in the White House and, you know, I would, I would put on a baseball cap and sunglasses and, you know, sweat pants and a sweat shirt, and put my hair back, and I would go walk. And I would tell the Secret Service they had to wear casual clothes, they had to take the things out of their ears, they had to look like they were just tourists. I had the best time, you know. I would, I would end up over on the Mall sometimes, walking around. And a family would come up and say, would you mind taking our picture in front of the White House. I'd be happy to. Here, why don't you... So, you know, there's nothing I like better than to be anonymous, as hard as that is to achieve. So I would spend the day, you know, out in nature, talking a long walk, walking through one of the beautiful towns here in New Hampshire, stopping in a cafe, stopping in a bookstore. You know, maybe calling some of my friends, some of whom are here tonight, and say, don't tell anybody but meet me, you know, there. That's what I, that's what I want to do, and it's what I get the great joy out of. I am so fortunate that I still have my friends from grade school and every other phase of my life. And they keep me grounded, they keep me honest, they deflate my head, they deal with the universe in one pocket and the dust and ashes in the other. [laughter] So any time I get to spend time with them. And then of course it would have to end with seeing my granddaughter because that's the creme de le resistance... COOPER: What does she call you? CLINTON: She calls me grandma. Grandma. Yes. She's working really hard on words. And it was so thrilling. They came to Iowa that last weekend because we obviously weren't going to leave. And so they got in late the night, Saturday night. And Sunday morning I'm getting ready. And you know Bill and I are you know having coffee and everything. So Chelsea brings her in and she sees me. She goes "grandma". And honest to goodness, the caucus could've ended right there. I would've been perfectly happy... [applause] ... saying the best thing has happened to me right this minute in Iowa. So that's where I'd end my day. COOPER: You talked about the circle of friends you have. Obviously in 2011 your mom passed away. CLINTON: Right. COOPER: In 2008 she was part of your campaign. CLINTON: She was. COOPER: And you wrote about how at the end of the day you would, you know, sit around the kitchen table with her, kick off your shoes and just talk about everything that had happened. CLINTON: Right. COOPER: What do you think — what advice do you think she would give you today in this campaign in this year? CLINTON: You know, my mother truly is my inspiration because she had such a terrible, miserable life and was abandoned and rejected by her own family, and was out at the age of 14 working as a housemaid. And her resilience, her love, her ability to have her own family to take such good care of us was just, you know to me the ultimate accomplishment in any life. And she would always give me the advice she gave me as a little girl. You know you get knocked down. Everybody gets knocked down. What matters is whether you get up. And when you get up, what do you do? How do you behave? Are you going to be bitter? Angry? Upset? Are you going to try to be positive, get something done, help somebody else? And I'm sure that's exactly what she'd be saying now. She'd be encouraging me. She'd be very proud, a little apprehensive because you know it's a brutal business being in politics. And people say things about those you love, whether it's your daughter or someone else. So she was very supportive. But you could tell you know how much pain she kind of absorbed from time to time. And so I would sit with her and I would say don't listen to that stuff, mom. And she'd say, well I have to know what they're saying about you. And I'd say you know don't put yourself through that. And so that would be what she'd be doing now I think too. Yes. COOPER: I want you to be able to make your closing argument... CLINTON: Oh. COOPER: ... to the people in New Hampshire. CLINTON: Well, thank you. Well, first of all, thanks again for being part of this process, this first in the nation primary. You know I said earlier today some people said well you know Sen. Sanders is ahead. And I respect that. And so maybe you know I should go onto the next state. And I said absolutely not. New Hampshire has been so good to me and my family. And I love campaigning in New Hampshire. I love this process. So, you're going to have to put up with me. I'm going to be going around the state, going to as many events as I can, answering as many questions, trying to talk about what I am offering. I really believe that we have a chance to build on the progress we've made and to get results for people. To get the economy producing more good jobs, to get incomes rising again, that's my goal. I will not raise middle class taxes because the middle class hasn't even yet recovered from the Great Recession. We're going to stick with the Affordable Care Act. We're going to make it work. We're going to get early childhood education, affordable college and pay down student debt, a lot of the agenda that is important to our country, particularly to young people. And we're going to defend our rights. We're going to defend a woman's right to make her own health care decisions. [applause] We're going to defend Planned Parenthood. We're going to defend marriage equality and end discrimination against LGBT Americans. And we're going to take on the gun lobby because it is absolutely unconscionable to have... [applause] ... 33,000 people a year die from gun violence. [applause] So please, join me in this campaign. I hope you will come out and vote for me on Tuesday. And I will fight for you every single day in the White House. Thank you all very much. [cheers and applause] COOPER: I want to thank both candidates for coming tonight, the voters for being here and asking such amazing questions... [applause] And the viewers at home. I also want to thank everybody with the Derry Opera House for their hospitality...[cheers] With the New Hampshire primaries now just days away, a reminder we'll be here for it all with [inaudible] expert analysis... [applause] Our coverage continues with Don Lemon right after this. [cheers] Thanks again. CLINTON: Thank you all. [applause] Thank you, guys. [applause]
STEPHANOPOULOS: We're joined now by his [Sanders] opponent, former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton. She joins us now from Manchester, as well. Madam Secretary, thank you for joining us this morning. So you have had your own turn on "Saturday Night Live." How did he do? CLINTON: Well, I didn't get to see it, but it's always a fun experience. I'm sure he did great. You know, it's a wonderful forum. It's a crash course in trying to figure out how to do live TV. And I had a great time doing it. STEPHANOPOULOS: We also had, of course, the Republican debate last night here at St. Anselm's. And Marco Rubio called you out on the issue of abortion. Take a look. [begin video clip] MARCO RUBIO: Why doesn't the media ask Hillary Clinton why she believes that all abortions should be legal, even on the due date of that unborn child? Why don't they ask Hillary Clinton why she believes that partial birth abortion, which is a gruesome procedure that has been outlawed in this country, she thinks that's a fundamental right. They are the extremists when it comes to the issue of abortion and I can't wait to expose them in a general election. [end video clip] STEPHANOPOULOS: Are you going to get exposed in a general election? CLINTON: You know, George, I — it's really quite sad to see what Senator Rubio is becoming in this campaign. Everybody understands that he is diving as far right as he possibly can. You know, I've been on record for many years about where I stand on abortion, how it should be safe and legal and I have the same position that I've had for a very long time. But what's really going on here is an effort by the Republicans to keep pushing as far as they can to overturn "Roe v. Wade," to defund Planned Parenthood, to make accusations and attacks that are really extreme... STEPHANOPOULOS: But are there any... CLINTON: — and I — I think the Amer... STEPHANOPOULOS: — restrictions you would accept on late-term abortions? CLINTON: Well, you know, I've been on the record on this for a long time. You know, I think that the life and health of the mother, obviously, rape and incest, have to be always taken into account. And, you know, when he raises the, you know, very, very difficult issue of late-term abortion, he conveniently overlooks the fact that there are medical reasons, there are health-related reasons. I've met women who have had to face this excruciating choice. This is not something that anyone that I've ever met with enters into without the deepest thought, the most careful consideration. And I remember at an event back in the '90s, where, you know, we sat and talked with some of the women who had to make a very hard decision. You know, it's — it's just so unfortunate that politicians like Senator Rubio are trying to politicize these kinds of very difficult concerns. STEPHANOPOULOS: You... CLINTON: And I don't think he should be allowed to get away with that. STEPHANOPOULOS: You had your own debate with Bernie Sanders this week, as well. And he challenged — you challenged him to come up with evidence that contributions from Wall Street ever influenced your positions. He and his team have circulated the charge from Elizabeth Warren, who said you changed your position on the bankruptcy bill back in 2001 because of contributions. Here's what Senator Warren had to say. [begin video clip] ELIZABETH WARREN: One of the first bills that came up after she was Senator Clinton was the bankruptcy bill. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And? WARREN: She voted in favor of it. She has taken money from the groups. And more to the point, she worries about them as a constituency. [end video clip] STEPHANOPOULOS: How do you respond to that charge? CLINTON: Well, I'm glad you asked me about it, because this is one of these, you know, innuendo insinuation charges that the Sanders campaign is engaging in. STEPHANOPOULOS: Well, that was Senator Warren, though. CLINTON: If you — no, but — but I know. But if you had played the entire quote, you know, what you would have heard her say, she and I worked together in 2000 to stop a bankruptcy bill that we both believed was very harmful. When I got to the Senate in 2001, one of the first big votes there was on a version of the bankruptcy bill and I was deluged by women's groups and children's advocates groups to do everything I could to make sure that child support and women's precarious financial situation in case of divorce or not being able to get the kind of funding they needed from a partner or a spouse in bankruptcy would not be endangered. And it was. The current — that bill was making it a very low priority. So I did go to work on behalf of all these women's groups and children's groups because they needed a champion. And I got that bill changed. And in return, it had nothing to do with any money whatsoever — and I resent deeply any effort by the Sanders campaign to so imply... STEPHANOPOULOS: But... CLINTON: It had to do with trying to get a deal... STEPHANOPOULOS: But that's not what... CLINTON: — that would protect women. But now let me finish, George, because this has been bandied about and I just want to set the record straight. And so then three years later, part of the — part of what Senator — Senator Warren said, you played. You didn't play the whole thing, because we've been allies. I faced a tough decision and I stood up for women and children. I went to the Senate floor, said that was exactly what I was doing. Then the bill did not pass. It never became law. And then when the next bill came up, 2005, women's issues were taken care of because I had made that a point back in 2001. And so then I was against that bill. I didn't get a chance to actually vote against it because Bill was in the hospital having a heart procedure. But I put a statement out. I was against it. So I'm happy to set this record straight. And I really want to, once again, call out the Sanders campaign, which claims they like to run a positive campaign. But they have been quite artful in raising questions and trying to cast doubts about my record. And I really am not going to sit and take it anymore — STEPHANOPOULOS: But Senator — CLINTON: I have a public record. I have never, ever been influenced in a view or a vote by anyone who has given me any kind of money. So I'm just going to keep setting the record straight. STEPHANOPOULOS: But in her book, Senator Warren said the bill was essentially the same but Hillary Clinton — Hillary Rodham Clinton was not. Big banks were now part of Secretary Clinton's consistency. She wanted their support. They wanted hers, including — CLINTON: George, look, I — look, I have the greatest — I have the greatest respect for Senator Warren. As I said, we did work together. I faced a choice. I could have said to the women who have been my advocates for 30 years, I'm sorry; I'm now in the Senate. But you know, I can't help you. Nobody else is helping them. They were desperate to get help. They were afraid that child support was going to be below credit card debt, that they were going to be really left out and left behind and badly damaged. I could have said, you know, I can't do that because somebody in 10 years might say that, you know, something else is going on. That's not the way I work. So they came to me; I said this is outrageous. I went to the floor. I lobbied to get a change. And as part of getting that change from both Democrats and Republicans, who were leading that legislation, they said if we change this bill at the last minute to take account of these issues you're raising about women and children, which they had not clearly made a priority before I showed up, then you know, you have to say you'll vote for it. It was — you know, look, that's what you have to do. I swallowed hard; I said OK. But it was also the case it didn't get passed. So I got what I needed into the bill. It stayed in the bill, even in the bad version that I posed in 2005. So thanks for the opportunity to set the record straight. STEPHANOPOULOS: In the debate the other night, you said you'd look into whether or not to release the transcripts of your speeches to financial groups. Have you made up your mind? CLINTON: Yes, you know, here's another thing I want to say. Let everybody who's ever given a speech to any private group under any circumstances release them. We'll all release them at the same time. You know, I don't mind being the subject in Republican debates, the subject in the Democratic primary. That kind of goes with the territory. I've been around long enough. But at some point, you know, these rules need to apply to everybody. And there are a bunch of folks, including, you know, my opponent, who's given, you know, speeches to groups and people on the other side who've given speeches to groups. Let — if this is now going to be a new standard so then it should apply to everybody and then I'll be happy to look into it further. STEPHANOPOULOS: Madam Secretary, thanks very much for your time this morning. CLINTON: Great to talk to you, George, thanks.
DICKERSON: We begin with campaign 2016 and former Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton, who is fighting to close a double-digit gap in the polls behind Bernie Sanders in New Hampshire. She joins us from Manchester. Secretary Clinton, your name came up, not surprisingly, in the Republican debate. [laughter] Senator Marco Rubio claimed that on the question of abortion that you support abortion on baby's due date. What do you say to that? CLINTON: Well, I think it's pretty pathetic, John. This is something that illustrates how Senator Rubio has been just going as far as he can to try to, I guess, buttress his credentials with certain parts of the Republican constituency. I have been on record for years about where I stand on making abortion safe and legal, the exceptions that are appropriate, that should be looked into, and the very difficult choices that very few women have to confront that lead to excruciating kinds of decisions. And to begin to politicize this so early in the campaign season, to try to raise the false charges and look like he's going to try to make sure Roe v. Wade is overturned and Planned Parenthood is defunded is just a tried-and-true tactic by those on the right. DICKERSON: His charge here, though, is in terms of late-term abortions, that you talk about medical issues, but there are nonmedical abortions, he would say, and others who share his view would say, and that you're not having any restrictions on those who would choose to have an abortion for nonmedical reasons puts you on the extreme side of this. CLINTON: Well, it's just not true. People should go back read Roe v. Wade. Reasonable kinds of restrictions can be imposed as long as the life and health of the mother are taken into account, and that is what the law is today. And I remember very well having a lot of incredibly difficult conversations listening to women who were told something devastating toward the end of their pregnancy, who were facing horrible kinds of consequences to their health and even potentially to their life. That's why this has to be taken into account by each individual woman, by her physician and her family. But, of course, under Roe v. Wade, there are certain guidelines. And Senator Rubio should know that, or I hope he does now. DICKERSON: In the town hall the other night, you said that the financial interests — quote — "are not giving me very much money now." But according to "The Washington Post" analysis, donors of hedge funds, banks, insurance companies and other financial service firms have given you at least $21.4 million. That's about 10 percent of what you have raised. That seems like a lot of money. CLINTON: Well, that's just not the calculation that we have done. But that's somebody's analysis. I'm not going to argue with it. What's really going on here, John, is disturbing to me. I will be really frank with you. What the Sanders campaign is trying to do is link donations to my political campaign or really donations to anyone's political campaign with undue influence, with changing people's views and votes. I have never, ever done that. And I really do resent the implication, or, as I said the other night, the insinuation. It would be like saying that President Obama, who took probably more money from Wall Street than any Democrat certainly had in 2008 with his successful campaign, was therefore automatically disqualified. Well, in fact, we know that was not true. He signed the toughest financial regulations since the 1930s with the Dodd-Frank bill. This is a very artful smear. And I'm just not going to sit and take it anymore. DICKERSON: Are you saying, though, on these questions that people from the financial services industry have no greater access to you than anybody else? CLINTON: I'm saying that I am available to and open to listening to people from all walks of life. I always have been. I always will be. But talk to the — if people want to donate to me from whatever industry, they know where I stand. They know that I called them out on the mortgage market mess back in — before the great crash happened. And I always like to remind people, it was not me, it was Senator Sanders who voted to deregulate slots and derivatives, which gave Lehman Brothers a lot of extra leverage, which was one of the contributing factors to their collapse, which obviously contributed to what happened in the great recession. So, we can take these step by step and try to unwind them, but it doesn't change the basic facts. People know where I stand. I rolled out the toughest, most effective effort to rein in financial abuse of anybody in this campaign. And it goes much further than Dodd-Frank. It goes much further than restoring Glass-Steagall, a 1930s efforts. It goes into shadow banking. It goes after hedge funds. It goes after carried interest loophole. Now, that is full disclosure. I am on the record. If somebody in one of these firms wants to give me money, I hope they know they're giving money to someone who is going to make sure they never wreck the economy again. DICKERSON: In the debate, you also said — quote — "Senator Sanders is the only person who I think would characterize me, a woman running to be the first woman president, as exemplifying the establishment." CLINTON: Right. DICKERSON: But isn't the experience you're — the experience you're running on gained through years of working in Democratic politics, doesn't that put you in the establishment, all that experience? CLINTON: Well, I don't know. Senator Sanders has lot more time in elective office than I do. And I find that sort of an amusing contrast. He's been elected official for 25 years, far longer than I was. I think I bring a great mix of experience. And I think being a woman is a big part of how I see problems, how I think about solving problems, what I believe is absolutely foundational, starting with children and their lives and their opportunities. On my way to Flint today to go and meet with the mayor, who asked me to come because she wants to keep the national spotlight on what happened to the children in her community. And I commend her for it. So, I think that the experiences I have had starting when I was in an advocate taking on the establishment, going on to be first lady, taking on the drug companies and the pharmacy companies, taking on the financial system, taking on a lot of big lobbies like the gun lobby, I think that I have shown that I have got a lot of experience taking on the establishment. And I'm proud of what I bring to the table to actually be able to solve problems and get results for people. DICKERSON: All right, Secretary Clinton, we will have to leave it there. Thanks so much for joining us this morning. CLINTON: Great to talk to you, John. Thanks.
TODD: We'll have my interview this morning with Donald Trump in just a few minutes. But we're going to begin with the Democrats and former secretary of state, Hillary Clinton. You liked that "graveyard of pollsters" line, didn't you? CLINTON: Well, I've lived through this twice — TODD: You've lived through this. CLINTON: — in '92 and 2008. And look, I know I'm behind. And I'm going to keep fighting until the very last vote is counted because I care about this primary. TODD: Why do you think you started with such a big deficit this time, considering — look, this has been a big state to both your husband and yourself, very important. CLINTON: Yes. TODD: They've always helped you. CLINTON: Well, look, I can't sit here and analyze all the reasons. Obviously, one is that the senator has been in public life next door for 25 years. So there's a familiarity with him. I totally respect that. And I just think that what's great about this primary is New Hampshire voters take a first, second, third, fourth, fifth look. I mean, yesterday, as I was crisscrossing from one side of the state to the other, talking to voters, I literally had people come up, say you changed my mind, you know, who knows. I mean, this is what's so exciting about the primary, Chuck. I came in in 2008, as I recall, like 16 points behind. I remember the night before the primary in '92, Bill's pollster saying, you know, you're in single digits. It's over. Who knows. I love this excitement. And you know, I'm going to fight as hard as I can. But I'm having a great time whatever happens. TODD: All right. Let's — I want to go to the debate a little bit because I would say the foreign policy section is one that you guys wanted to highlight because you felt as if he didn't do so well. You brought up Secretary of State Madeleine Albright to talk about it. But some of the things that you said about Senator Obama's readiness on foreign policy, they are very similar to what you've said about Bernie Sanders. In '08, you said, "I have a lifetime of experience that I will bring to the White House. I know Senator McCain has a lifetime of experience that he will bring to the White House." Senator Obama has a speech he gave in 2002; it sounds very similar to what you said when you're like, OK, you had one vote on the Iraq war — CLINTON: Well, you know what — TODD: What's the difference between what you said about then- Senator Obama and what you're saying about Senator Sanders? CLINTON: There's a very big difference. In 2008, Senator Obama had really done his homework in the Senate. He'd been there by that time a few years. He had developed a network of advisors on national security and foreign policy issues. They were very diligent and focused on making sure he was ready, that he had as broad a set of views as possible. And they really went toe-to-toe with all the people supporting me. That's not happening in this campaign. There really isn't any kind of foreign policy network that is supporting and advising Senator Sanders. I'll let him speak for himself. I think that what's important is this job requires you to be ready on all aspects of it on the first day. And we know we got a particularly complex world right now. And the president's not going to have the time. Maybe previous presidents in past years could have a little more leeway because of, you know, the way the world functioned. But now it's North Korea with its missile tests, it's Russian aggression, it's enforcing the Iran agreement. You have to do it all at once. TODD: Do you think the Iraq vote should still matter to voters? CLINTON: Look, I think that voters are perfectly free to take into account anything they want to take. But I also hope they'll take the rest of the record. You know, I was involved in the biggest counterterrorism decision in the Obama administration to determine whether or not to go after bin Laden. I did put the sanctions on Iran to get them to the negotiating table. I think that this is a debate that the voters really have to pay attention to because it is choosing both a president and a commander in chief. TODD: I'm curious, do you believe if it wasn't for the Iraq War we wouldn't have ISIS today? CLINTON: Well, I think that's a hard conclusion to draw because, remember, we had Al Qaeda before we had ISIS. Al Qaeda attacked us in New York. Al Qaeda attacked our embassies in Africa — [crosstalk] TODD: The argument is that the instability in Iraq is what has created this and that if we — that if Saddam Hussein were still there, we wouldn't have ISIS. CLINTON: Well, I think that's a lot of jumps in logic that to me doesn't really add up. The Iraq War, there's no doubt, contributed to instability. I'm not going to in any way deny that. But you cannot draw a direct line. What you can do is to say that jihadist terrorism starting with Al Qaeda — TODD: Right. CLINTON: — and moving onto its latest incarnations, most particularly ISIS, is in response to a number of forces and factors that are roiling up the Middle East. And certainly fighting for what Islam means and how it's going to be presented and what people are going to mean when they talk about it — so, yes, we've got a much bigger set of problems. TODD: All right. Another thing I wanted to follow up on the debate. Senator Sanders called the entire business model of Wall Street a fraud. We didn't get a chance to ask you to respond directly to that critique. I'd like to ask you to respond to it now. CLINTON: Well, I think it's the kind of extreme statement that, once you really take a hard look at it, it's hard to understand. You know, when you talk about Wall Street, are we talking about every bank? Or are we talking about a particular part of New York? That's never really clarified. What I believe is that there are good actors and bad actors in every part of our economy. The job of the president is to weed out and prevent the bad actors from disrupting economic activity, from amassing too much power and influence. But we live in a complex global economy where we've got to have a good banking system that is able to service the American economy. And it needs to be more than just looking at the five banks that are the big banks. We have to have a much more robust community banking system, regional banking system, other forms of credit access. And that's what I am advocating for. And I still do not understand why I'm having this problem getting Senator Sanders to join me in going after what are the potential problems that are out there, the shadow banking sector and the investment and hedge fund sector. TODD: Do you — can you have a Treasury Secretary who isn't familiar with how Wall Street works? And I say this because I think there's so much distrust right now. CLINTON: Yes. There is. There is. TODD: On Wall Street. Six of the last Treasury Secretaries either came from Wall Street or went to Wall Street after. I think there certainly right now isn't an appetite for somebody from Wall Street to be the next Treasury Secretary. And yet can you have a Treasury Secretary if they don't understand Wall Street? CLINTON: Well, you have to have a Treasury Secretary who understands the economy, the American economy and the global economy. I think there are a lot more places where one can and should look for such a Treasury Secretary — [crosstalk] TODD: Do you think you can pick one without having them have a Wall Street background? CLINTON: You know, I want somebody who can make a good commitment to work with me to get the economy moving, to get more good jobs created, to get incomes rising, to look out over the horizon at some of the economic problems that are out there. We've got to figure out what we're going to do with China. China is finally having to come to grips with the fact that a lot of its growth may not have been as on a firm foundation as we would hope. So we need people in government who have that kind of commitment and understanding. But we've got to put the needs of the American economy first. And that's going to be my commitment. TODD: Before I let you go, I want to ask you about a comment Former Secretary of State Madeleine Albright said — a comment that I've heard her say before. But it sort of rang differently to a lot of people. She said, there's a special place in hell for women who don't help women. But the implication is that somehow, if you're a Democratic woman and you're not supporting you, what's wrong with you? Do you want the vote to be decided on gender lines like that? CLINTON: Oh, look, you know, as you remember, Madeleine has been saying this for many, many years. TODD: Starbucks cups, I think, centers on that. I get that. CLINTON: She believes it firmly and., in part, because she knows what a struggle it has been. And she understands the struggle is not over. So I don't want people to be offended by what she is expressing as her very — TODD: You can understand why some might have been offended by it? CLINTON: Well, good grief, we're getting offended about everything these days. Honest to goodness, I mean, people can't say anything without offending somebody. She has a life experience that I respect. I admire her greatly. And I think what she was trying to do, which she's done in every setting I've ever seen her, in going back 20-plus years, was to remind young women particularly that this struggle, which many of us have been part of is, not over. And don't be in any way lulled by the progress we've made. And I think it was a light-hearted but very pointed remark, which people can take however they choose. TODD: All right. What do you got in the Super Bowl? CLINTON: I don't have anybody right now. TODD: You don't have anybody? CLINTON: I'm going to Flint, Michigan, I'm worrying about the kids in Flint, Michigan, trying to figure out what we're going to do to make sure they're not damaged irreparably by this — TODD: So you're going today, you could have gone Wednesday. That says something about how you feel about New Hampshire? CLINTON: I love New Hampshire. And you know, the mayor asked me to come. This was as early as we could get it done. I want to lend my support. I'm very hopeful the Congress, which is trying to work in a bipartisan way, will come up with some funding to deal with these problems that have afflicted the community. And I'm going to keep doing everything I can to help them. TODD: Secretary Clinton, I know you got a plane to catch. CLINTON: Thanks. Great to talk to you.
TAPPER: Some breaking news now: CNN will host a Democratic debate in Flint, Michigan, on March 6, just two days before that state's primary. Hillary Clinton is actually going to leave the campaign trail here in New Hampshire to visit Flint, Michigan, today. But, first, she's right here... [laughter] ... right next to me, live. Secretary Clinton, thanks so much for being here. CLINTON: Well, Jake, congratulations on doing the debate in Flint. It's really important we keep the spotlight on this problem. And you're right. I'm leaving here. I'm going to Flint. The mayor asked me to come. They're trying to, you know, really have a lot of support, because we hope that there will be some good news coming out of Congress in the next few days. And it's just — it's an issue that I don't want people to forget about. Because it's not the only Flint in our country. TAPPER: Right. CLINTON: There are other places where these kinds of toxins, lead, other sorts of pollutants are really affecting people's lives. And I'm just not going to give up on this. TAPPER: Can I ask you a question? Just a clarification of what you think needs to be done in term of the people there... CLINTON: Yes. TAPPER: ... who need water and need infrastructure built. CLINTON: Right. TAPPER: You have called for the citizens of Michigan, the State of Michigan to be billed, but you're also supporting this bill from senators Stabenow and Peters from Michigan that would make it a federal payment. CLINTON: Right. TAPPER: Do you think that it should be a state issue in terms of the money paying for Flint, or should it be a federal issue? CLINTON: It should be both and partly because there's a broad set of needs that have to be addressed. Yes, the infrastructure must be repaired and modernized. Yes, we do have to get emergency means in to get water, get the kind of nutritional support. You know, I know something about lead poisoning because of work I've done in the past and — TAPPER: With the Children's Defense Fund? CLINTON: Well, and as a senator from New York. We had a lot of, you know, old housing with lead paint in it. A lot of kids suffered from lead poisoning. And part of the challenge is you've got to intervene early. We need comprehensive health screenings. Then we need to figure out how do we get the right nutrition and vitamins. You've got to begin to work to counteract the lead. Then we've got to get the educational, additional help that kids need. This is a big deal, because it's not only about fixing the infrastructure, but it's also about the future. How we're going to take care of these kids going forward. So there's a lot of work to be done. And I think it has to be both the state and a federal responsibility. TAPPER: You know, what's really so upsetting is as you know, just a little bit of lead can cause permanent damage. CLINTON: There is no — there is no acceptable level of lead for kids. TAPPER: Yes. Exactly. CLINTON: None. TAPPER: So according to what we know now, the state knew, at least in February — and the federal EPA knew at least in April, and yet it wasn't until months, months later. So obviously, this is a failing on the local level. But do you also think it's a failing by the EPA? CLINTON: Well, I think it has to be absolutely investigated to figure out what happened. Why wasn't this sounding alarms everywhere? And I don't want to prejudge it. I don't know what the answer to that question is. I'm focused on OK, what do we do now? The damage has been done. How do we mitigate that damage? How do we help alleviate both intellectual and the physical, lasting consequences that children face when they've been poisoned by lead? So I'm trying to look at the future. I know there will be a lot of people focusing on what happened and that's really important, because we do have to, you know, open this inquiry more broadly. You know, I've said that we've got places in our country where we have asthma rates at 500 times higher, killing, you know, young children of color than anybody else because of where they live and what they're exposed to. You know, our children's health should be the highest priority for our country, and so anything I can do, and I'll keep doing it to really beat the drums on this but to ask people hey, let's look everywhere. You know, Flint — we've got to help flint. It's a terrible, horrible set of circumstances. TAPPER: Mm-hmm. CLINTON: But we also have to be looking at other places to try to make sure that this doesn't happen to other kids. TAPPER: So I can't help but notice it's also the New Hampshire primaries coming up in two day. CLINTON: Oh, it is? [laughter] TAPPER: So just to move to politics for one second. Your family has a long history here. You obviously won here in 2008. Your husband staged his comeback here in 1992. Can you win here? Is it possible that you can win here? CLINTON: I don't know. I don't know. I'm just going to work as hard as I can. I love the New Hampshire primary. I love it because the interactions you have with voters in every setting is so rewarding, and voters in this state take a first, second, third, fourth look at you. They're constantly evaluating. I have been telling voters across the state, this is the biggest job interview in the world. You've got to really think hard about what the job is, who can be president, who can be commander in chief, and then you have to really judge us. And I don't know what's going to happen. I know I'm behind. I am in very good spirits about that because I love the process. TAPPER: So you said the other night at the — I forget if it was the debate or the town hall, they all run together in my mind, but you said one of them that nobody can point to an example where you took money from a group... CLINTON: Right. TAPPER: ... and changed your vote. The Sanders campaign afterwards sent out an excerpt from a book from Elizabeth Warren in which she suggests that you took $140,000.00 from the banking interests, and as a result, according to Warren, not me, changed your vote on the bankruptcy bill. CLINTON: Right. Right. TAPPER: Now I want — I would love it if you would address the substance of the allegation. And also the fact that Sanders' campaign sent it out, but Sanders himself backed off from making the charge himself. CLINTON: Well. that's their — that's their typical, you know, artistic smear. You know, the campaign sends out something, gets people riled up, and then they say oh no, we're running a positive campaign. Enough. OK, I'm glad you raised this, because I really do want to get this record straight once and for all. I worked with Senator Warren with whom I have the highest regard, in 2000 to stop a very bad bankruptcy bill. And then when I got to the Senate in 2001, early on, there was going to be a vote on another bankruptcy bill. I was deluged — now as a senator, not as a first lady lobbying and working against this bill, I was deluged by women's groups and children's groups because the version of the bill that was going to be voted on did not protect child support, did not protect vulnerable women and their children from what would happen to them if their partner, their spouse went into bankruptcy and was able to discharge those obligations. And, you know, literally, people I had worked with for 30 years came and said nobody else will do this. You've got to help us. We've got to change that provision. I took that on. And I went to the floor. And I buttonholed the Democrats and the Republicans who were leading that bill. I said, you can't do this. You've got to change that provision. And they did. But they also put it to me. They said, if we change this provision, you have to vote for the bill. Now, that's what happens sometimes. I didn't like the bill any more than I had liked it before. It still had very bad provision. But I also pushed hard for a deal to protect women and children. So OK, I held my nose. I voted for it. It never became law. When it came back in 2005, I was against it. I didn't actually get to vote against it because Bill was in the hospital with another heart procedure, but I put out a statement on the floor. You can look at what I said in 2001. You can look at what I said in 2005. And so I'm glad to set this record straight. You know, but this kind of attack by innuendo, insinuation is really getting old. You know, hey can't point to anything. They are grabbing at straws to make this case. But let's ask Senator Sanders' campaign, why did he vote to deregulate swaps and derivatives? One of the key reasons for the Lehman brothers being over leveraged, collapsing and helping to bring down the economy. You know, this is a debate that we should be having about what our public records are and where we stand. I have the toughest, most effective campaign plan to take on the entire financial industry. I don't understand why he doesn't join me. Because it goes a lot further than anything he is proposing. We have to look at the shadow banking industry. Everybody knows where I stand on this. So I think we should end with the smear and the insinuation and talk about our respective plans. TAPPER: A lot of your supporters were very upset this last week when some older male pundits suggested that you are a shouter. Now, I would observe — I would observe that Bernie Sanders doesn't exactly talk in a whisper. But that said, do you think that — do you think that the coverage of you is sexist? Do you think that when male pundits say things like that, they have a different standard for you? CLINTON: And I don't want to single anybody out, Jake. Look, we are still living with a double standard and I know it. Every woman I know knows it. Whether you're in the media as a woman, or you're in the professions or business or politics. And I don't know anything other to do than to just keep forging through it and just taking the slings and arrows that come with being a woman in the arena. You know, sometimes I talk soft. Sometimes I get passionate and I get a little bit excited. I don't know any man who doesn't do the same thing. And I find it sort of interesting that all of a sudden this is a big discussion about me, once again. I'm so used to this. I'm going to keep making my case. I'm going to keep talking about what I will do as president. I'm going to keep laying out my record. Because I think it's really important that this election be actually about who can do the job that needs to be done starting in January of 2017. TAPPER: Last question, madam secretary. How has this experience of running for president changed you, if it has? CLINTON: You know, I think the most amazing learning experience. And having gone through this now twice, I think I am a different person than I was back in '08. I think that the experience I had as secretary of state has given me a perspective and an understanding of a lot of the issues that is deep and gives me the confidence to know that I can do every part of the job. But you run at different points in a country's, you know, thinking. And right now we're at a time when people are on both sides, Republicans, Democrats, right, left, people are really worried that our economy isn't working for them, that our government isn't working for them. And that's causing a lot of the anger and the frustration. I totally get that. I feel it. You know, things have been going on that are just wrong. These Supreme Court decisions against voting rights, Citizens United — those are dramatically altering the balance of power in our country. The great recession, for which there were a number of causes, but you have to look at the failure of the Bush administration to regulate what was going on in the financial and mortgage markets. People deserve to be upset. But what I'm saying — and maybe it's not the most popular theme these days. You know, get angry, vent, but then realize anger is not a plan and venting is not a strategy, and we have work to do. And I'm confident we can do that work. But we're going to have to roll up our sleeves and say OK, we've got to make sure the economy works for everybody, not just those at the top. Here's my plan for jobs and raising incomes. We've got to make sure the Affordable Care Act gets the cost down, but gets coverage to 100 percent. Here's what I can do about that. Let's have a discussion about what you would be thinking if you were conducting a job interview. OK, I've got the experience, I've got the passion. And here's what I'm going to do with it. And that's what I think the country needs, because people are just whipping them up. I mean, on the Republican side, all of this rhetoric, this demagoguery, which plays to the fears and the insecurities that people feel. And I just think that's not who we are. We are the premier problem-solvers of human history. We've got to get back to doing that together. TAPPER: All right, Madam Secretary. We'll see you on the campaign trail. Good luck on Tuesday. CLINTON: I'll be there. Thank you. TAPPER: Thanks so much for stopping by. Appreciate it. CLINTON: Nice to talk to you.
MADDOW: Madam Secretary, thank you so much for this time.CLINTON: My pleasure to see you again. MADDOW: So, we're very close to voting in New Hampshire. CLINTON: We are. MADDOW: The polls show Senator Sanders still significantly ahead. If you do not win in New Hampshire, does that imply that there's going to be — or in your mind, does that mean you need to change course at all? Will that mean your campaign going ahead will be different than leading into this? CLINTON: You know, Rachel, I've always had a different view on this than I think maybe some others have. I always knew Iowa was going to be really, really hard. And we won, narrow, but a win is a win. MADDOW: One quarter of one percent. CLINTON: Yes, I'm always happy about that. I always knew that Senator Sanders been in public life next door for 25 years, he's on the Congress for that long, he had a tremendous amount of familiarity and a sense of really belonging in the area. So, I always knew this was going to be hard. I feel good about the campaign we waged here. I think we have an uphill battle. We're going to battle it until the last votes are counted and we're going to turn around and head off for the next contest. MADDOW: Politico.com just this afternoon just published something that says that there's changes in the works. There's always these sort of campaign gossip stories. But they are say — they say they're citing a half dozen people with direct knowledge of the situation. Their lead is, "Hillary and Bill Clinton are so dissatisfied with their campaign's messaging and digital operations, they're considering staffing and strategy changes after what's expected to be a loss in Tuesday's primary." Are you planning some sort of shake up like that? CLINTON: Yes, somebody showed that to me. I have no idea what they are talking about or who they are talking to. We're going to take stock. But it's going to be the campaign I've got. I'm confident in the people I have. I'm very committed to them. They're committed to doing the best we can. We're going to take stock. What works, what doesn't work? We're moving into a different phase of the campaign. We're moving into different geographic areas. So, of course, it would be malpractice not to say, OK, what worked? What can we do better? What can we do new and different that we have to pull out? MADDOW: President Clinton was here with you today as was your daughter. President Clinton did his own event yesterday which made some headlines, when he had some very harsh criticism for Senator Sanders campaign, essentially calling Senator Sanders and his campaign hypocritical, dishonest, calling out sexism from Senator Sanders supporters. Although Senator Sanders have called out his on supporters for sexism and said he will not tolerate it. Is President Clinton going further than you would in those criticisms for the Sanders campaign or do you also share the view that he's been dishonest and hypocritical? CLINTON: Well, here's my view, and I think Bill was really defending my supporters because we know a lot of them are being harassed online, they're being harassed at our events. They are being really treated badly. Look, I'm all for people who are for my opponent. I think it's great to bring in as many new, young people as possible. I want people treated respectfully. I think that's part of what he was talking about. I have been concerned about tone of his campaign over the last weeks. We were running I thought a good campaign on issues. We're getting to the point we have to draw contrasts. That's natural. You know, I have a health care approach. He has a health care approach. We may have the same goal, but we have a different view about how we get there. That is fair game, as it should be. But there has been a constant undercurrent that I said in the debate last week, was a kind of attack by innuendo, insinuation, kind of artful smears. And I just said enough is enough. You know, if you have something to say to my face, say it. If you can point to any event, any vote, any view that you think has been influenced by any donation I've ever made, call it out, you know? Then, they put up the bankruptcy bill. I answered that yesterday on the morning shows. And so, I want this innuendo to stop. You know, let's just be honest with each other. Look, Senator Sanders has taken money from Wall Street. He took it through the Democratic Senate Campaign Committee. That's what we do. That doesn't mean his views are compromised. It doesn't mean my views and it doesn't mean that President Obama's views when he was running for the presidency — he took a lot of money from Wall Street — in any way stopped him from pushing through and signing Dodd Frank and imposing tough rules. So, it's a — you know, he gets his supporters — he sends some messages and his campaign then amplifies those messages. And then a lot of his young people get really worked up and they're going off on tangents. They can attack me, that's fine. I'm in the arena. But to go after journalists who say something nice about me, to go after supporters who post things, to go after elected officials who are for me, because, you know, I have the vast majority of elected officials on the Democratic side because they know us both. And they know I would be the president who can actually get done what I'm saying. MADDOW: As a journalist, and who is an out and proud liberal, I get attacked 50/50 by people who say I'm a dyed in the wool partisan for Bernie and then the other 50 said, it said I'm dyed in the wool partisan for you. And people really have decided one way or the other, about 50/50, that I'm completely in the tank. I do not notice a difference in the tone or the nastiness or the snark or the inappropriateness of those attacks that I get from the people who support you or Senator Sanders. If you did want to change the tone of things from your supporters, could you? I mean, he said he doesn't want sexism and other forms of offensive comments from his supporters, can he do more than he is? Could you do more than you do? CLINTON: I think we should do what we can. But I'm also focused on what he says. You know, his argument basically is this. Anyone who has taken a donation from anyone connected with Wall Street is compromised. They're vote has been bought. They can't be trusted. That is just not true. If it is true, now it includes him we know because he's taken contributions from Wall Street. MADDOW: He said yesterday that no politician, there's never been a politician in history who says, yes, the money that I took influences me. So, therefore, essentially implying like the defense that there isn't, that you don't claim to be been influenced is by the donations is no defense. CLINTON: But let's put out the proof, Rachel. Don't listen to what people say. I find it deeply offensive. You know, I have worked really hard. I've taken on many more powerful groups than he has. I've taken on the drug companies, the insurance companies. I've got big oil going after me. I've got hedge fund guys spending $6 millions of dollars in ads against me, which I would think would raise an interesting question if they are so worried about Bernie, why are they trying to defeat me? I've taken onto gun lobby, something that, you know, he never has done. So, I've got the scars to prove my bona fides and what I'm willing to take on and how I've stood firm against an onslaught of attacks, you know, turning me into the political pinata sometimes. So, point to the evidence. Otherwise, stop it. Let's talk about I want to get to universal coverage building on the Affordable Care Act. You want to start over with single payer. Let the people decide what's the best way to do this. So, that's what this should be about. MADDOW: On the — staying for a moment on that, that line of attack. You had mentioned in the debate when Chuck asked you about transcripts of speeches that you gave paid speeches, that you would look into it. We've had some further word from your campaign that there may be a release of those transcripts. What's the status of that? Do you expect to release those speeches? CLINTON: Well, you know what I said the other day — you know, look, I'm getting a little bit weary of the double standard. There's a lot of people on both sides. If we're going to start saying what you did when you're out of public office, when you're in the private sector, what you did, fair game. Release it all. I'm all for that. MADDOW: You mean all presidential candidates? CLINTON: Yes, everybody, release everything. But again, I've been asking to do something for which there's no basis, just the attempt to cast suspicion. So, I said I will look into it. We will look into it. But, you know, what's good for the gander should be good for the goose. [laughter] MADDOW: So, you wouldn't do it unilaterally, but if everybody's going to do it, you would do it? CLINTON: Well, this is — I'm really not thinking about it until I get through New Hampshire, to be honest. I want to get through tomorrow, and then, you know, it's going to be very boring for people once it is done under whatever circumstances. MADDOW: Did you see the Republican debate on Saturday night? CLINTON: I was at my own event in Portsmouth. So, I — I did not see. MADDOW: Have you been able to resist the temptation to watch the clips of Marco Rubio saying the same thing over and over and over again? CLINTON: I did get to see that because I was on every news channel that I was flipping around. MADDOW: Do you have — I mean, he's seen as at least coming out of Iowa as having a lot of momentum as a potential nominee for the Republican Party. Do you have any reaction or opinion about that performance from him? CLINTON: I'm going to leave my opinions to myself because I don't want to in any way influence their process, because they have to make their decision and clearly, the longer it lasts and the more difficult it is, the better it will be for us. MADDOW: I went to some Republican candidate events since I've been up here and — CLINTON: They let you in? MADDOW: They let me in. I wear a baseball hat. Incognito situation. But I specifically wanted to talk to women voters who were there at Republican candidate events. And I found a number of different women to talk to. Some are dyed this wool Republicans, but more often I found are women open to the idea of voting for a Democrat. I talked to a few women who voted for Barack Obama either last time or in 2008. But they are shopping for a Republican candidate this year. And 2-1, the reason they said they are shopping for a Republican candidate and not thinking about voting here in the Democratic side is because they do not believe that you are honest. They have issue with your trustworthiness. I know you see this come up in the polls and people talk about their feelings about the various candidates. I'm sure you disagree with that assessment from them. I understand that. But how do you make the case to people, to women in particular for whom that's the objection. That's why they can't pull the lever for you. CLINTON: You know, obviously, this is not anything I want to hear because I find it so absolutely contrary to who I am and who all these people who support me, who know me, work with me and count on me know who I am. But I thought a lot about it, Rachel, because when you think back, I emerged on the national scene in 1992. I have been under relentless attack ever since. Now, just read behavioral science, read psychology, even when the attacks proved to be unfounded, untrue, it leaves a residue, right? People say, well, why is she being attacked so much? It must be something there. So, I get through the '90s. I run for the Senate. Same thing happen. I worked, I gained the trust of the people of New York. When I run again, I get a larger percentage of the vote. So, people who see me in action, people who count on me, people who know that if I tell you something intend to do, I will do everything in my power to make that happen. Then President-elect Obama turns around after that hard fought campaign with all sorts of accusations flying around, say I trust you, I want you to be my secretary of state. When I'm holding office, I get along well with Republicans. I will always have the, you know, right wingers who are never going to give up on trying to push me down and push me out. They view me as a threat. And I accept that. But when I get to work with people, we get things done. And that's been my pattern. So, when I get that question and I ask people, I say what is it you are really reacting to? Very often they don't know. Then a lot of them will say, well, Benghazi. I said, OK, Benghazi. You know, did you know there were nine separate investigations, eight of them independent, one of them clearly partisan admittedly to try to bring me down politically. And they all reach the same conclusions. There were things we could have and should have done better. I immediately said we would. I testified for 11 hours. I answered every question, but it's still on the TV. I hear people talking about it. I can't stop them from talking about it. I can only tell you what the facts are. I can tell you that in the last, what, 36, 37 years, we've had terrorist problems in Iran, in Lebanon, in Kenya, in Tanzania, in New York and, yes, in Benghazi — none of them were every politicized. We lost 258 marines and embassy personnel in Beirut. The Democrats didn't stand up and go after the secretary of state. We lost people in Kenya and Tanzania, 12 Americans, hundreds of Africans. Madeleine Albright was secretary of state, she forthrightly asked for a report. She made it public. People didn't turn it into a partisan attack. So, I have to only conclude that there is a concerted effort to try to make partisan advantage by really throwing some much at me that even if little splotches of it stick, it will cloud people's judgment of me. So, that's a burden I carry. But when you stop and think, you know, the people who have supported me are not doing it because they just like me. I have the governor of Vermont supporting me. I have Pat Leahy, the senator from Vermont supporting me, the two former governors, Madeleine Kunin and Howard Dean supporting me. They clearly know us both. They clearly prefer to support me. I have the senator here, the governor in New Hampshire. They know me. They trust me. They're not the kind of people who would just sign onto campaign for some frivolous reason. I have all my friends from the Senate, Cory Booker and Tim Kaine and Kirsten Gillibrand and Debbie Stabenow and Amy Klobuchar, they were all up here in the snow because they believe in me, and they trust me. So, I can't stop the barrage of attacks. I want your viewers and anyone else who would be interested in this to ask themselves, why does the right and particularly the Republicans, spend so much time, money and effort through the media, through their advertising because you look at the Republicans are running more ads against me than they run against each other, accusing me of being this and that, all kinds of accusations. Why? I'll tell you why, because they are afraid of me. They know that I will be a president who, yes, I will listen to people, I will seek common ground, but I will stand my ground and I know how to get things done. And that's the last thing these guys want to see again. MADDOW: What did you learn by going there that you didn't need before? CLINTON: Nothing substitutes for sitting like I did and you were there when you were there with mothers who told me about what had happened to their families. A mother who moved to Flint just serendipitously right up at the time the crisis was beginning, a year ago April, pregnant with twins, started seeing rashes, lost her twins. Just sitting there like I'm sitting with you just hearing that story, you know there is a depth of emotion and horror frankly associated with not being able to trust the water you drink and that you bathe your baby in. And listening to a lot of officials explained in detail how little control they had because their city was under emergency management under the governor, getting into the real detail about what they could and couldn't do and how they literally couldn't get phone calls returned, letters answered, talking to some of the water warriors who have been on this issue and doing everything they could to bring it to public attention, talking to the doctors who are leading up the efforts to test kid and what more they need. It really filled out in great excruciating detail how terribly damaged and abused this community has been and it reminded me that people have a right to be angry. I have no argument with the anger, the insecurity, the fear, the worry that people have when your government fails you, when the economy fails you, when politics fails you, anger is a natural and frankly expected result. But as we were talking yesterday and as this incredible mayor who has just taken this city on her back and is trying to lift it up said, OK, we are so distraught, our hearts are broken. Our stomachs are sick with worry about what happens next, but we need a plan. So I came to try to get them more support, working with all levels of government to try to make sure they had whatever they needed to do as much as possible to empower themselves, and I got a long list of, you know, follow up I will be doing over the next weeks. MADDOW: You said yesterday you were making a personal commitment you would see it through — CLINTON: Yes. MADDOW: — to the end. I will say just my opinion being there, my felling when I was there was that I couldn't believe, the basic things that families needed to cope on a day-to-day basis were not attended to. What I aim at specifically there is no day-to-day delivery of clean water in Flint. So, there's a lot love people, average, poor American city, people don't have transportation or people could be house bound, elderly people, right now, still, to this day, today the day before the New Hampshire primary, the plan is for people to go out to the fire stations and collect their allotted one case of bottled water per day — is there a sense in which the emergency, not just fixing it for the long haul, but the emergency of what people need day-to-day still isn't being attended to and there ought to be some quicker response right now? CLINTON: Yes. Yes. Look, as I said yesterday, we've got a very big infrastructure problem that has to be fixed. Congress is working on that, my friend Debbie Stabenow is really leading the charge. We have a huge set of problems having to do with the needs that people have that are not being met. You mentioned one of them, clean water. We still don't have all the testing set up to be done. MADDOW: Right. CLINTON: We don't have the planning yet for what has to happen in the schools. We don't know whether we can get not just clean water, but the kind of nutrition that can maybe begin to mitigate to some extent the affects of blood before it gets from the bloodstream into tissues, muscles, et cetera. So, we have a long list and I brought some folks with me who are going to stay involved and help with that planning process and we have a big lack of trust, and one of the things that I have advocated is we need to find a way, not just to empower, but to hire people in the community, to be the outreach workers, to do the water delivery, to be on the front lines in their neighborhoods. So, we're putting together under the mayor's leadership a kind of matrix of tasks and who can do them, what they need to be able to do them. A lot of them don't need training. Some of them might. And so, how do we piece all this together and talking with the city council, county commissioners and others, there's roles for everybody to play, but somebody has to have the overall approach that is followed. MADDOW: And quick. CLINTON: Yes, and very quick.
Thank you so much. It is wonderful to be here and see so many friends. I've spoken at a lot of AIPAC conferences in the past, but this has to be one of the biggest yet and there are so many young people here, thousands of college students from hundreds of campuses around the country. I think we should all give them a hand for being here and beginning their commitment to this important cause.You will keep the U.S.-Israel relationship going strong. You know, as a senator from New York and secretary of state I've had the privilege of working closely with AIPAC members to strengthen and deepen America's ties with Israel. Now, we may not have always agreed on every detail, but we've always shared an unwavering, unshakable commitment to our alliance and to Israel's future as a secure and democratic homeland for the Jewish people.And your support helped us expand security and intelligence, cooperation, develop the Iron Dome missile defense system, build a global coalition to impose the toughest sanctions in the history on Iran and so much more. Since my first visit to Israel 35 years ago, I've returned many times and made many friends. I've worked with and learned from some of Israel's great leaders, although, I don't think Yitzhak Rabin ever forgave me for banishing him to the White House balcony when he wanted to smoke.Now I'm here as a candidate for president and I know that all of you understand what's at stake in this election. Our next president will walk into the Oval Office next January and immediately face a world of both perils we must meet with strength and skill and opportunities we must seize and build on. The next president will sit down at that desk and start making decisions that will affect both the lives and livelihoods of every American and the security of our friends around the world.So we have to get this right. As AIPAC members, you understand that while the turmoil of the Middle East presents enormous challenge and complexity, walking away is not an option.Candidates for president who think the United States can outsource Middle East security to dictators or that America no longer has vital national interests at stake in this region are dangerously wrong. It would be a serious mistake for the United States to abandon our responsibilities or cede the mantle of leadership for global peace and security to anyone else.As we gather here, three evolving threats, Iran's continued aggression, a rising tide of extremism across a wide ark of instability and the growing effort to delegitimize Israel on the world stage are converging to make the U.S.-Israel alliance more indispensable than ever.We have to combat all these trends with even more intense security and diplomatic cooperation. United States and Israel must be closer than ever, stronger than ever and more determined than ever to prevail against our common adversaries and to advance our shared values.This is especially true at a time when Israel faces brutal terrorist stabbings, shootings and vehicle attacks at home. Parents worry about letting their children walk down the street, families live in fear. Just a few weeks ago, a young American veteran and West Point graduate named Taylor Force was murdered by a Palestinian terrorist near the Jaffa Port. These attacks must end immediately and Palestinian leaders need to stop inciting violence, stop celebrating terrorists as martyrs and stop paying rewards to their families.Because we understand the threats Israel faces, we know we can never take for granted the strength of our alliance or the success of our efforts. Today, Americans and Israelis face momentous choices that will shape the future of our relationship and of both our nations. The first choice is this, are we prepared to take the U.S.-Israel alliance to the next level? This relationship has always been stronger and deeper than the headlines might lead you to believe. Our work together to develop the Iron Dome saved many Israeli lives when Hamas rockets began to fly.I saw its effectiveness firsthand in 2012, when I worked with Prime Minister Netanyahu to negotiate a seize fire in Gaza and if I'm fortunate enough to be elected president, the United States will reaffirm we have a strong and enduring national interest in Israel's security. And we will never allow Israel's adversaries to think a wedge can be driven between us.When we have differences, as any friends do, we will work to resolve them quickly and respectfully. We will also be clear that the United States has an enduring interest in and commitment to a more peaceful, more stable, more secure Middle East and we will step up our efforts to achieve that outcome. Indeed, at a time of unprecedented chaos and conflict in the region, America needs an Israel strong enough to deter and defend against its enemies, strong enough to work with us to tackle shared challenges and strong enough to take bold steps in the pursuit of peace.That's why I believe we must take our alliance to the next level. I hope a new 10-year defense memorandum of understanding is concluded as soon as possible to meet Israel's security needs far into the future. That will also send a clear message to Israel's enemies that the United States and Israel stand together united. It's also why, as president, I will make a firm commitment to ensure Israel maintains its qualitative military edge.The United States should provide Israel with the most sophisticated defense technology so it can deter and stop any threat. That includes bolstering Israeli missile defenses with new systems, like the Arrow 3 and David's Sling, and we should work together to develop better tunnel detection technology to prevent arms smuggling, kidnapping and terrorist attacks.One of the first things I'll do in office is invite the Israeli prime minister to visit the White House and I will send a delegation from the Pentagon and the Joint Chiefs to Israel forearly consultations. Let's also expand our collaboration beyond security. Together we can build an even more vibrant culture of innovation that tightens the links between Silicon Valley and Israeli tech companies and entrepreneurs.There is much Americans can learn from Israel from cybersecurity to energy security to water security and just on an everyday people to people level. And it's especially important to continue fostering relationships between American and Israeli young people who may not always remember our shared past. They are the future of our relationship and we have to do more to promote that. Many of the young people here today are on the front lines of the battle to oppose the alarming boycott, divestment, and sanctions movement known as BDS.Particularly at a time when anti-Semitism is on the rise across the world, especially in Europe, we must repudiate all efforts to malign, isolate and undermine Israel and the Jewish people.I've been sounding the alarm for a while now. As I wrote last year to the heads of major American-Jewish organizations, we have to be united in fighting back against BDS. Many of its proponents have demonized Israeli scientists and intellectuals, even students. To all the college students who may have encountered this on campus, I hope you stay strong, keep speaking out, don't let anyone silence you, bully you or try to shut down debate, especially in places of learning like colleges and universities.Anti-Semitism has no place in any civilized society. Not in America, not in Europe, not anywhere.Now, all of this work defending Israel's legitimacy, expanding security and economic ties, taking our alliance to the next level depends on electing a president with a deep, personal commitment to Israel's future as a secure, democratic Jewish state and to America's responsibilities as a global leader. Tonight, you'll hear from candidates with very different visions of American leadership in the region and around the world. You'll get a glimpse of a potential U.S. foreign policy that would insult our allies, not engage them and embolden our adversaries, not defeat them.For the security of Israel and the world, we need America to remain a respected global leader committed to defending and advancing the international order, an America able to block efforts to isolate or attack Israel. The alternative is unthinkable.Yes, we need steady hands, not a president who says he's neutral on Monday, pro-Israel on Tuesday and who knows what on Wednesday, because everything's negotiable. Well, my friends, Israel's security is non-negotiable.I have sat in Israeli hospital rooms holding the hands of men and women whose bodies and lives were torn apart by terrorist bombs. I've listened to doctors describe the shrapnel left in a leg, an arm or even a head. That's why I feel so strongly that America can't ever be neutral when it comes to Israel's security or survival. We can't be neutral when rockets rain down on residential neighborhoods, when civilians are stabbed in the street, when suicide bombers target theinnocent. Some things aren't negotiable and anyone who doesn't understand that has no business being our president.The second choice we face is whether we will have the strength and commitment to confront the adversaries that threaten us, especially Iran. For many years, we've all been rightly focused on the existential danger of Iran acquiring a nuclear weapon. After all, this remains an extremist regime that threatens to annihilate Israel.That's why I led the diplomacy to impose crippling sanctions and force Iran to the negotiating table and why I ultimately supported the agreement that has put a lid on its nuclear program. Today, Iran's enriched uranium is all but gone, thousands of centrifuges have stopped spinning, Iran's potential breakout time has increased and new verification measures are in place to help us deter and detect any cheating.I really believe the United States, Israel and the world are safer as a result, but still, as I laid out in a speech at the Brookings Institution last year, it's not good enough to trust and verify. Our approach must be distrust and verify.This deal must come with vigorous enforcement, strong monitoring, clear consequences for any violations and a broader strategy to confront Iran's aggression across the region. We cannot forget that Tehran's fingerprints are on every conflict across the Middle East from Syria to Lebanon to Yemen. The Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps and its proxies are attempting to establish a position on the Golan from which to threaten Israel and they continue to fund Palestinian terrorists.In Lebanon, Hezbollah is amassing an arsenal of increasingly sophisticated rockets and artillery that well may be able to hit every city in Israel. Tonight, you will hear a lot of rhetoric from the other candidates about Iran, but there's a big difference between talking about holding Tehran accountable and actually doing it. Our next president has to be able to hold together our global coalition and impose real consequences for even the smallest violations of this agreement.We must maintain the legal and diplomatic architecture to turn all the sanctions back on if needed. If I'm elected, the leaders of Iran will have no doubt that if we see any indication that they are violating their commitments not to seek, develop or acquire nuclear weapons, the United States will act to stop it and that we will do so with force if necessary.Iranian provocations, like the recent ballistic missile tests also are unacceptable and should be answered firmly and quickly, including with more sanctions.Those missiles were stamped with words declaring, and I quote, "Israel should be wiped from the pages of history." We know they could reach Israel or hit the tens of thousands of American troops stationed in the Middle East. This is a serious danger and it demands a serious response.The United States must also continue to enforce existing sanctions and impose additional sanctions as needed on Iran and the Revolutionary Guard for their sponsorship of terrorism, illegal arms transfers, human rights violations and other illicit behaviors, like cyber-attacks. We should continue to demand the safe return of Robert Levinson and all American citizens unjustly held in Iranian prisons.And we must work closely with Israel and other partners to cut off the flow of money and arms from Iran to Hezbollah. If the Arab League can designate all of Hezbollah as a terrorist organization, surely it is time for our friends in Europe and the rest of the international community to do so as well and to do that now.At the same time, America should always stand with those voices inside Iran calling for more openness. Now look, we know the supreme leader still calls the shots and that the hardliners are intent on keeping their grip on power, but the Iranian people themselves deserve a better future and they are trying to make their voices heard. They should know that America is not theirenemy, they should know we will support their efforts to bring positive change to Iran.Now, of course, Iran is not the only threat we and Israel face. The United States and Israel also have to stand together against the threat from ISIS and other radical jihadists. An ISIS affiliate in the Sinai is reportedly stepping up attempts to make inroads in Gaza and partners with Hamas.On Saturday, a number of Israelis and other foreigners were injured or killed in a bombing in Istanbul that may well be linked to ISIS. Two of the dead are U.S.-Israeli dual nationals. This is a threat that knows no borders. That's why I've laid out a plan to take the fight to ISIS from the air, on the ground with local forces and online where they recruit and inspire. Our goal cannot be to contain ISIS; we must defeat ISIS.And here is a third choice, will we keep working toward a negotiated peace or lose forever the goal of two states for two peoples? Despite many setbacks, I remain convinced that peace with security is possible and that it is the only way to guarantee Israel's long-term survival as a strong Jewish and democratic state.It may be difficult to imagine progress in this current climate when many Israelis doubt that a willing and capable partner for peace even exists, but inaction cannot be an option. Israelis deserve a secure homeland for the Jewish people. Palestinians should be able to govern themselves in their own state in peace and dignity and only a negotiated two-state agreement can provide those outcomes.If we look at the broader, regional context, converging interests between Israel and key Arab states could make it possible to promote progress on the Israeli-Palestinian issue. Israelis and Palestinians could contribute to our greater cooperation between Israel and Arabs. I know how hard all of this is. I remember what it took just to convene Prime Minister Netanyahu and President Abbas for the three sessions of direct face-to-face peace talks in 2010 that I presided over, but Israelis and Palestinians cannot give up on the hope of peace.That will only make it harder later. All of us need to look for opportunities to create the conditions for progress, including by taking positive actions that can rebuild trust. Like the recent constructive meetings between the Israeli and Palestinian finance ministers aiming to help bolster the Palestinian economy or the daily on-the-ground security cooperation between Israel and the Palestinian Authority.But at the same time, all of us must condemn actions that setback the cause of peace. Terrorism should never be encouraged or celebrated and children should not be taught to hate in schools.That poisons the future. Everyone has to do their part by avoiding damaging actions, including with respect to settlements. Now, America has an important role to play in supporting peace efforts and as president, I would continue the pursuit of direct negotiations. And let me be clear, I would vigorously oppose any attempt by outside parties to impose a solution, including by the U.N. Security Council.There is one more choice that we face together and in some ways, it may be the most important of all, will we as Americans and as Israelis stay true to the shared democratic values that have always been at the heart of our relationship? We are both nations built by immigrants and exiles seeking to live and worship in freedom, nations built on principles of equality, tolerance and pluralism.At our best, both Israel and America are seen as a light unto the nations because of those values. This is the real foundation of our alliance and I think it's why so many Americans feel such a deep emotional connection with Israel. I know that I do and it's why we cannot be neutral about Israel and Israel's future, because in Israel's story, we see our own and the story of all people who struggle for freedom and self-determination.There's so many examples. You know, we look at the pride parade in Tel Aviv, one of the biggest and most prominent in the world and we marvel that such a bastion of liberty exists in a region so plagued by intolerance. We see the vigorous, even raucous debate in Israeli politics and feel right at home.And of course, some of us remember a woman, Golda Meir, leading Israel's government decades ago and wonder what's taking us so long here in America.But we cannot rest on what previous generations have accomplished. Every generation has to renew our values and yes, even fight for them. Today, Americans and Israelis face currents of intolerance and extremism that threaten the moral foundations of our societies. Now, in a democracy, we're going to have differences, but what Americans are hearing on the campaign trail this year is something else entirely, encouraging violence, playing coy with white supremacists, calling for 12 million immigrants to be rounded up and deported, demanding we turn away refugees because of their religion and proposing a ban on all Muslims entering the United States.Now, we've had dark chapters in our history before, we remember the nearly 1,000 Jews aboard the St. Louis who were refused entry in 1939 and sent back to Europe, but America should be better than this and I believe it's our responsibility as citizens to say so. If you see bigotry, oppose it. If you see violence, condemn it. If you see a bully, stand up to him.On Wednesday evening, Jews around the world will celebrate the Festival of Purim and children will learn the story of Esther who refused to stay silent in the face of evil. It wasn't easy, she had a good life and by speaking out, she risked everything, but as Mordecai reminded her, we all have an obligation to do our part when danger gathers and those of us with power or influence have a special responsibility to do what's right.As Elie Wiesel said when accepting the Nobel Peace Prize, "Neutrality helps the oppressor, never the victim. Silence encourages the tormentor, never the tormented." So my friends, let us never be neutral or silent in the face of bigotry. Together, let's defend the shared values that already make America and Israel great.Let us do the hard work necessary to keep building our friendship and reach out to the next generation of Americans and Israelis so the bonds between our nations grow even deeper and stronger. We are stronger together and if we face the future side by side, I know for both Israel and America our best days are still ahead.Thank you so much.
