Thank you. I was born five years after the end of a global war that killed more than 60 million people.I am the son of a veteran of that war, who flew 35 missions over war-torn Europe as a tail gunner on a B-17.When dad returned home, he married mom, and they started a life together.They were tenant farmers.They were raised during a time of great hardship, and had little expectation beyond living in peace, putting a roof over our heads and putting food on our table.Home was a place called Paint Creek. Too small to be called a town, but it was the center of my universe.For years we had an outhouse, and mom bathed us in a number two washtub on the back porch. She also hand-sewed my clothes until I went off to college.I attended Paint Creek Rural School, grades one through 12. I played 6-man football. I was a member of Boy Scout Troop 48, became an Eagle Scout, and went off to Texas A&M where I was a member of the Corps of Cadets and an animal science major.I was proud to wear the uniform of our country as an Air Force officer and aircraft commander.After serving, I returned home to the rolling plains and big skies of West Texas, and I returned to farming.There is no person on earth more optimistic than a dryland cotton farmer. We always know a good rain is just around the corner, no matter how long we'd been waiting.The values learned on my family's cotton farm are timeless: the dignity of work, the integrity of your word, responsibility to community, the unbreakable bonds of family, and duty to country.These are enduring values. Not the product of some idyllic past, but a touchstone of American life in our small towns, our largest cities, our booming suburbs.I have seen American life from the red dirt of a West Texas cotton field, from a campus in College Station, from the elevated view of a C-130 cockpit, and from the Governor's office of the Texas Capitol.I served a small rural community in the Texas Legislature, and I led the world's 12th largest economy.I know that America has experienced great change, but what it means to be an American has never changed: we are the only nation in the world founded on the power of an idea that all "are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights, that among these are life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness."Our rights come from God, not from government, and our people are not the subjects of government, but instead government is subject to the people.It has always been the case that there has been a social compact between one generation of Americans and the next: to pass along an inheritance of a stronger country full of greater promise and possibility.And that social compact has been protected at great sacrifice. This was never more clear to me than when I took my father to the American cemetery that overlooks the bluffs at Omaha beach.On that peaceful, wind-swept setting, there lie 9,000 graves, including 45 pairs of brothers, 33 of whom are buried side by side, a father and a son, two sons of a president. They all traded their future for ours in a final act of loving sacrifice.In that American Cemetery, it is no accident each headstone faces west: west over the Atlantic, towards the nation they defended, the nation they loved, the nation they would never come home to.It struck me as I stood in the midst of those heroes that they look upon us in silent judgment. And that we must ask ourselves: are we worthy of their sacrifice?The truth is we are at the end of an era of failed leadership.We have been led by a divider who has sliced and diced the electorate, pitting American against American for political purposes.Six years into the so-called recovery, and our economy is barely growing. This winter, it actually got smaller.Our economic slowdown is not inevitable, it is the direct result of bad economic policy.The president's tax and regulatory policies have slammed shut the door of opportunity for the average American trying to climb the economic ladder, resigning the middle class to stagnant wages, personal debt, and deferred dreams.Weakness at home has led to weakness abroad.The world has descended into a chaos of this president's own making, while his White House loyalists construct an alternative universe where ISIS is contained and Ramadi is merely a "setback" – where the nature of the enemy can't be acknowledged for fear of causing offense, where the world's largest state sponsor of terrorism, the Islamic Republic of Iran, can be trusted to live up to a nuclear agreement.No decision has done more harm than the president's withdrawal of American troops from Iraq.Let no one be mistaken, leaders of both parties have made grave mistakes in Iraq. But in January, 2009 – when Barack Obama became Commander-in-Chief – Iraq had been largely pacified.America had won the war. But our president failed to secure the peace.How callous it seems now as cities once secured with American blood are now being taken by America's enemies, all because of a campaign slogan.I saw during Vietnam a war where politicians didn't keep faith with the sacrifices and courage of America's fighting men and women, where men were ordered into combat without the full support of their civilian commanders.To see it happen again, 40 years later, because of political gamesmanship and dishonesty, is a national disgrace.But my friends, we are a resilient country. We have been through a Civil War, we've been through two world wars, we've made it through a Great Depression – we even made it through Jimmy Carter. We will make it through the Obama years.The fundamental nature of this country is our people never stay knocked down. We get back up, we dust ourselves off, and we move forward. And we will again.I want to share some important truths with my fellow Americans, starting with this truth: we don't have to settle for a world in chaos or an America that shrinks from its responsibilities.We don't have to apologize for American exceptionalism, or western values.We don't have to accept slow growth that leaves behind the middle class, and leaves millions of Americans out of work.We don't have to settle for crumbling bureaucracies that target taxpayers and harm our veterans.And we don't have to resign ourselves to debt, decay and slow growth.We have the power to make things new again. To project American strength again, to get our economy going again.And that is why today I am running for the presidency of the United States of America.It is time to create real jobs, to raise wages, to create opportunity for all. To give every citizen a stake in this country. To restore hope, real hope to forgotten Americans, millions of middle class families who have given up hope of getting ahead, millions of workers who have given up hope of finding a job.Yes, it's time for a reset, time to reset the relationship between government and citizen.Think of the arrogance of Washington, DC, representing itself as some beacon of wisdom, with policies smothering this vast land with no regard for what makes each state and community unique. That's just wrong.We need to return power to the states, and freedom to the individual.Today our citizens and entrepreneurs are burdened by over-regulation and unspeakable debt.Debt is not just a fiscal nightmare, it is a moral failure. Let me speak to the millennial generation: massive debt, passed on from our generation to yours, is a breaking of the social compact.You deserve better. I am going to offer a responsible plan to fix the entitlement system, and to stop this theft from your generation.To those forgotten Americans drowning in personal debt, working harder for wages that don't keep up with the rising cost of living, I come here today to say your voice is heard.I know you face rising health care costs, rising child care costs, skyrocketing tuition costs, and mounting student loan debt. I hear you, and I am going to do something about it.To the one in five children in families on food stamps, to the one in seven Americans living in poverty, to the one in ten workers who are unemployed, under-employed or given up hope of finding a job: I hear you, you are not forgotten.I am running to be your president.For small businesses on Main Street struggling to just get by, smothered by regulations, targeted by Dodd-Frank: I hear you, you're not forgotten. Your time is coming.The American People see a rigged game, where insiders get rich, and the middle class pays the tab.There is something wrong when the Dow is near record highs, and businesses on Main Street can't even get a loan.Since when did capitalism involve the elimination of risk for the biggest banks while regulations strangle our community banks?Capitalism is not corporatism. It is not a guarantee of reward without risk. It is not about Wall Street at the expense of Main Street.The reason I am running for president is I know for certain our country's best days lie ahead. There is nothing wrong in America today that cannot be fixed with new leadership.We are just a few good decisions away from unleashing economic growth, and reviving the American Dream.We need to fix a tax code riddled with loopholes that sends jobs overseas and punishes success.We have the highest corporate tax rate in the western world. It is time to reduce the rate, bring jobs home and lift wages for working families.By the time this Administration has finished with its experiment in big government, they will have added more than 600,000 pages of new regulations to the Federal Register.On my first day in office, I will issue an immediate freeze on all pending regulations from the Obama administration. That same day, I will send to Congress a comprehensive reform and rollback of job-killing mandates created by Obamacare, Dodd-Frank and other Obama-era policies.Agencies will have to live under strict regulatory budgets. And health insurers will have to earn the right to your money, instead of lobbying Washington to force you to hand it over.On day one, I will also sign an executive order approving the construction of the Keystone Pipeline.Energy is vital to our economy, and to our national security. On day one, I will sign an executive order authorizing the export of American natural gas and oil, freeing our European allies from dependence on Russia's energy supplies.Vladimir Putin uses energy to hold our allies hostage. If energy is going to be used as a weapon, I say America must have the largest arsenal.We will unleash an era of economic growth, and limitless opportunity. We will rebuild American industry. And we will lift wages for American workers.It can be done because it has been done in Texas.During my 14 years as governor, Texas companies created almost one-third of all new American jobs.In the last seven years of my tenure, Texas created 1.5 million new jobs. Without Texas, America would have lost 400,000 jobs.We were the engine of growth because we had a simple formula: control taxes and spending, implement smart regulations, invest in an educated workforce, and stop frivolous lawsuits.Texas now has the second highest high school graduation rate in the country and the highest graduation rates for African-American and Hispanic students.We led the nation in exports, including high-tech exports. We passed historic tax relief, and I was proud to sign balanced budgets for 14 years.We not only created opportunity, we stood for law and order.When there was a crisis at our border last year and the president refused my invitation to see the challenge that we faced, I told him, "Mr. President, if you won't secure the border, Texas will."Because of the threat posed by drug cartels and trans-national gangs, I deployed the Texas National Guard.The policy worked. Apprehensions declined by 74 percent. If you elect me your president,I will secure this border.Homeland security begins with border security. The most basic compact between a president and the people is to keep the country safe.The great lesson of history is strength and resolve bring peace and order, and weakness and vacillation invite chaos and conflict.My very first act as president will be to rescind any agreement with Iran that legitimizes their quest to get a nuclear weapon.Now is the time for clear-sighted, proven leadership. We have seen what happens when we elect a president based on media acclaim rather than a record of accomplishment.This will be a "show-me, don't tell me" election, where voters look past the rhetoric to the real record.The question of every candidate will be this one: when have you led? Leadership is not a speech on the senate floor, it's not what you say, it's what you do.And we will not find the kind of leadership needed to revitalize the country by looking to the political class in Washington.I have been tested. I have led the most successful state in America. I have dealt with crisis after crisis – from the disintegration of a space shuttle, to Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Ike, to the crisis at the border, and the first diagnosis of Ebola in America.I have brought together first responders, charities and people of faith to house and heal vulnerable citizens dealing with tragedy.The spirit of compassion demonstrated by Texans is alive all across America today. While we have experienced a deficit in leadership, among the American People there is a surplus of spirit.And among our great people, there is a spirit of selflessness – that we live to make the world better for our children, and not just ourselves.It was said that when King George the Third asked what General Washington would do upon winning the war, he was told he would return to his farm and relinquish power. To that, the monarch replied, if he did that, he would be the greatest man of his age.George Washington lived in the service of a cause greater than self.If anyone is wondering if America still possesses the character of selfless heroes, I am here to say, "Yes, I am surrounded by such heroes."They are of different generations, but they are woven together by the same thread of selfless sacrifice.They are heroes like Medal of Honor Recipient Mike Thornton, who survived an ambush by enemy forces in Vietnam, and made it back to the safety of a water rescue, only to find out a fellow team member had been left behind, presumed dead.He didn't leave though, he returned through enemy fire and retrieved Lieutenant Norris who was still alive – and then swam for two hours keeping his wounded teammate afloat until they were rescued.Heroes like Marcus Luttrell, who survived a savage attack on the side of a mountain in Afghanistan, losing his three teammates and 16 fellow warriors shot down trying to rescue him.He is not just the lone survivor, to Anita and me he is a second son.And Taya Kyle, who suffered the deep loss of her husband Chris, an American hero. When I think of Taya Kyle, I think of a brave woman who carries not just the lofty burden of Chris' legacy, but the grief of every family who has lost a loved one to the great tragedy of war, or its difficult aftermath. Anita and I want to thank her for her tremendous courage.America is an extraordinary country. Our greatness lies not in our government, but in our people.Each day Americans demonstrate tremendous courage. But many of those Americans have been knocked down and are looking for a second chance.Let's give them that chance. Let's give them real leadership. Let's give them a future greater than the greatest days of our past.Let's give them a president who leads us in the direction of our highest hopes, our best dreams and our greatest promise.Thank you, and God bless you.
Ninety-nine years ago — on May 15, 1916 — at a courthouse in Waco, Texas, a mentally disabled 17-year-old boy named Jesse Washington was convicted of raping and murdering the wife of his employer.He pled guilty and was sentenced to death. But Jesse died no ordinary death. Because he was black.After the death sentence was issued, Jesse was dragged out of the McLennan County Courthouse and into a crowd of hundreds.Thanks to the advent of a new technology called the telephone, word quickly spread as to what was about to happen, and soon 15,000 people were watching Jesse Washington be tortured, mutilated, and tied over the branch of a tree.Someone lit a fire under Jesse, and raised him up into the air.Jesse tried to climb up the chains to avoid the fire.Someone started cutting off Jesse's fingers, so he couldn't keep climbing.One man castrated him, while another used a pole to prevent Jesse from escaping the fire.A prominent local photographer took pictures of Jesse's charred remains and sold them as souvenirs, on postcards.Even today, we Texans struggle to talk about what happened to Jesse Washington. We don't want to believe that our great state could ever have been the scene of such unimaginable horror.But it is an episode in our history that we cannot ignore. It is an episode we have an obligation to transcend.We've made a lot of progress since 1916.A half-century ago, Republicans and Democrats came together to finally enshrine in law the principle that all of us — regardless of race, color, or national origin — are created equal.Shedrick Willis was a slave who, before the Civil War, had been bought and sold on the steps of the McLennan County Courthouse — the very place where Jesse Washington would later be dragged to his death.When I was governor of Texas, I had the proud distinction of appointing Willis' great-great-great-grandson, Wallace Jefferson, to be the first African-American on the Supreme Court of Texas. In 2004, I appointed Wallace to be the Supreme Court's first black Chief Justice.There are tens of thousands of stories like Wallace Jefferson's.When it comes to race, America is a better and more tolerant and more welcoming place than it has ever been. We are a country with Hispanic CEOs, and Asian billionaires, and a black President.So why is it that even today, so many black families feel left behind? Why is it that a quarter of African-Americans live below the poverty line, even after the impact of federal programs like food stamps and housing subsidies?The supplemental poverty rate for African-Americans is nearly double the rate for other Americans.Democrats have long had the opportunity to govern in African-American communities.It is time to help black families hold them accountable for the results.I am here to tell you that it is Republicans, not Democrats, who are truly offering black Americans the hope of a better life for themselves and their children.I am proud to live in a country with an African-American President. But President Obama cannot be proud of the fact that the prevalence of black poverty has actually increased under his leadership.We cannot dismiss the historical legacy of slavery, nor its role in causing the problem of black poverty. And because slavery and segregation were sanctioned by government, there is a role for government policy in addressing their lasting effects.But the specific policies advanced by the President and his allies on the left amount to little more than throwing money at the problem and walking away.We spend 450 billion dollars a year on Medicaid, and yet health outcomes for those on Medicaid are no better than for those with no insurance at all. Instead of reforming Medicaid, the President expanded it under Obamacare.In the cities where the left-wing solutions have been tried over and over again — places like Detroit and Chicago and Baltimore — African-Americans are moving out, and moving to cities like Dallas and Houston.As Americans we are all united by certain aspirations. We all want access to opportunity. We all want good schools for our kids. We want to live in safe neighborhoods. We want to live in cities and states where housing and college and everyday expenses are affordable. We all want to experience the American Dream.From 2005 to 2007, more African-Americans moved to Texas than any other state except Georgia. Many were coming from blue states like New York, Illinois, and California. Many came from Louisiana, where they had lost their homes due to Hurricane Katrina.But each new resident was welcomed to Texas, with open arms.They came to a state with a booming economy. We kept taxes and regulation low, and frivolous lawsuits to a minimum. And we worked hard to educate every child.Let me be clear. We haven't eliminated black poverty in Texas. But we have made meaningful progress.In New York, the supplemental poverty rate for blacks is 26 percent. In California, it's 30 percent. In Washington, D.C., it's 33 percent.In Texas, it's just 20 percent. Here's how it happened.Because we curtailed frivolous lawsuits and unreasonable regulations in Texas, it's far cheaper to do business in Dallas or Houston than in Baltimore or Detroit. And those lower costs get passed down to consumers — especially low-income consumers — in the form of lower prices.There's a lot of talk in Washington about income inequality. But there's a lot less talk about the inequality that arises from the high cost of everyday life.In blue-state coastal cities, strict zoning laws and environmental regulations have prevented builders from expanding the housing supply. That's great for the venture capitalist who wants a nice view of San Francisco Bay, but it's not so great for the single mother working two jobs in order to pay rent and still put food on the table for her kids.It's not just about how many dollars you earn—though there are plenty of opportunities to do that in Texas. It's also about how far each dollar can take you, after you've paid your taxes, and your rent, and your tuition, and your grocery bills.In too many parts of this country, black students are trapped in failing schools where union bosses look out for themselves at the expense of the kids. This matters, because kids who graduate from high school typically make 50 percent more than those who don't.In Texas, we made sure that the kids come first.Texas' high school graduation rate went from 27th in the country in 2002, to 2nd highest in the country in 2013. Our most recent graduation rate for African-Americans was number one in the nation: 13 points higher than the national average.We also found a way to reduce crime while keeping kids out of jail. In 2014, Texas had its lowest crime rate since 1968. At the same time, we closed three prisons and reformed our sentencing laws.Too many Texans were going to prison for non-violent drug offenses. And once they got out of prison, many found they couldn't get a job because they had a criminal record.Nobody gets Texans confused as being soft on crime. I believe in consequences for criminal behavior. But I also believe in second chances and human redemption…because that, too, is part of the American story.Americans who suffer from an addiction need help, not moral condemnation. By treating alcohol and drug abuse as a disease, we have given Texans who have experienced a run-in with the law the help they need and the rehabilitation that many seek.And many now are living in recovery, engaged in saving the lives of others trapped in addiction.The human soul yearns to be free — free from the chains of addiction, free from the chains of poverty.I am running for President because I want to make life better for all people, even those who don't vote Republican.I know Republicans have much to do to earn the trust of African-Americans. Blacks know that Republican Barry Goldwater, in 1964, ran against Lyndon Johnson, a champion of civil rights. They know that Barry Goldwater opposed the Civil Rights Act of 1964, because he felt that parts of it were unconstitutional.States supporting segregation in the South cited "states' rights" as a justification for keeping blacks from the voting booth and the dinner table.As you know, I am an ardent believer in the Tenth Amendment, which was ratified in 1791 as part of the Bill of Rights. The Tenth Amendment says that "the powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the States respectively, or to the people."I know that state governments are more accountable to you than the federal government is.But I am also an ardent believer in the Fourteenth Amendment, which says that no state shall "deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws."There has been — and will continue to be — an important and legitimate role for the federal government in enforcing civil rights.Too often, we Republicans — myself included — have emphasized our message on the Tenth Amendment but not our message on the Fourteenth — an Amendment, it bears reminding, that was one of the first great contributions of the Republican Party to American life, second only to the abolition of slavery.For too long, we Republicans have been content to lose the black vote because we found that we could win elections without it. But when we gave up on trying to win the support of African-Americans, we lost our moral legitimacy as the party of Lincoln. As the party of equal opportunity for all.It is time for us to once again reclaim our heritage as the only party in our country founded on the principle of freedom for African-Americans.We know what Democrats will propose in 2016—the same things Democrats have proposed for decades: more government spending on more government programs.And there is a proper and important role for government assistance in keeping people on their feet. But few presidents have done more to expand government assistance than President Obama.Today, we spend nearly $1 trillion a year on means-tested anti-poverty programs.And yet black poverty remains stagnant.Here is what I have seen in my time in public service: the best welfare program in America is a job.There's a fundamental reason why Democratic policies have failed to cure poverty: It's because the only true cure for poverty is a job, and Democratic policies have made it too hard for the poor to find work.Just this week, the President announced new regulations for overtime pay that will make it costlier for companies to hire full-time employees. Companies will respond to these rules by hiring fewer people, for the simple reason that money doesn't grow on trees.And so my first priority as President will be to reignite the engine of American economic growth by reforming the tax code and requiring federal agencies to adhere to a strict regulatory budget.A growing economy will give those at the bottom of the ladder more opportunities to climb, just as it has in Texas.Many poor Americans want to leave welfare and rejoin the workforce. But because of taxes and regulations, it often makes more economic sense to stay on welfare than to get a full-time job.Furthermore, federal programs impose a one-size-fits-all approach to fighting poverty. In California, someone might need more money to deal with the cost of housing. In Massachusetts, it might be the cost of vocational school.Instead, we force the poor to enroll in separate programs for housing assistance or Pell grants.If I am elected President, I will send to Congress a welfare reform bill that will take the money we already spend on non-health care-related, anti-poverty programs and split it into two parts.The first part will be an expanded and reformed version of the Earned Income Tax Credit so that anyone with a job can live above the poverty line.The second part will consist of a block grant so that states can care for their safety net populations in the manner that best serves their residents.As I mentioned earlier, one of the most important things we did in Texas while I was governor is reform our drug-related sentencing laws, so that non-violent offenders could stay out of prison. As Texans got smarter about policing and crime prevention, we came to appreciate the importance of keeping promising young people out of jail.Imagine how hard it is to get a job if you have a criminal conviction on your record.We are working to stop the inter-generational cycle of incarceration, where grandchildren meet their grandparents behind prison bars. We can reform federal sentencing laws — just as we have done at the state level — to ensure more young people have a shot at a better life. And we can do so while keeping our low-income communities safe from crime.We all know we have to improve our schools. This is an area where President Obama had potential, but he caved into the demands of labor unions.It's a fallacy to assume that the vastly different student populations across the country can be adequately educated with one-size-fits-all policies. We need to empower state lawmakers, school boards and parents to implement policies that address the specific needs of their students, and keep schools accountable and efficient.Enterprising charter school teachers, like Eva Moskowitz in New York, should be able to replicate their astounding success all over the country, without the interference of the federal government.And we have to tackle the exorbitant price of a college education. One of the biggest barriers today to entering the middle class — black or otherwise — is the high cost of a college degree.A four-year degree at the typical private college now costs more than 170,000 dollars.Compare that to the median home price in America, which is $205,000.We are literally asking poor students to mortgage their future in order to gain a college degree.This must end. In Texas, I challenged our state universities to offer a four-year college degree for less than $10,000. Many thought it would be impossible to drive tuition and fees that low. But today, 13 Texas universities have reached that target.We are on the cusp of an online revolution in higher education, but only if the federal government rolls back the rules that make it almost impossible for students to gain accredited bachelor's degrees achieved with online instruction.Furthermore, just as with college tuition, we have to reduce the cost of living for those who need every dollar to be stretched as far is it can go.Federal regulations, like Obamacare's employer mandate, drive up the cost of hiring new workers. That means that companies hire fewer people. But it also means that the price of basic consumer goods goes up.Earlier this year, the Competitive Enterprise Institute estimated that federal regulations cost American businesses as much as $1.88 trillion a year. That's nearly $15,000 per U.S. household. If you add in state regulations, the problem gets even worse.If we do these five things — if we create jobs, incentivize work, keep non-violent drug offenders out of prison, reform our schools, and reduce the cost of living — we will have done more for African-Americans than the last three Democratic Administrations combined.At the American Cemetery in Normandy, nine thousand three hundred and eighty-seven American soldiers are buried in orderly row upon orderly row."If ever proof were needed that we fought for a cause and not for conquest," a general once said, "it could be found in these cemeteries. Here was our only conquest: all we asked was enough soil in which to bury our gallant dead."Some of our gallant dead were the sons of Presidents, like Theodore Roosevelt, Jr. Most were ordinary Americans, simply doing what their country asked of them. Some of the graves don't even have names—they're simply marked: "Here rests in honored glory a comrade in arms known but to God."Some of the most compelling graves at Normandy are for African-Americans who served in segregated regiments, like Willie Collins of the 490th Port Battalion.Willie Collins made the ultimate sacrifice for America, despite the fact that America didn't always treat him in the way he deserved.Brigadier General Theodore Roosevelt, Jr. and Sergeant Willie Collins grew up in different circumstances. Ted's ancestors had a coat of arms. Willie's ancestors were brought here in chains.But Ted and Willie joined themselves together with a commitment that every generation of Americans has embraced: the promise of leaving America — and the world — a better place than they found it. Of ensuring a better future for the children and grandchildren of those to come.I am a beneficiary of the sacrifices of Sergeant Collins and General Roosevelt, and of so many others known but to God.I grew up in a place called Paint Creek. When I was young, we had an outhouse and mom bathed us on the front porch in a number two washtub.We attended the Paint Creek Rural School, where some of the teachers lived on campus. Their profession was literally their life, and they inspired me. I can assure you none of my teachers knew they were instructing a future Air Force captain, let alone a future governor.But they also have a motto at the Paint Creek School that summarizes the endless possibilities for its students: "No dream too tall for a school so small."Many people don't feel that their lives are filled with endless possibilities anymore.Americans entering adulthood today have good reason to fear that it will be harder for them to earn a living, to buy a home, to pay off their debts, than it was for their parents.But if there is one thing we can learn from Willie Collins and the millions like him — from the tragedy of Jesse Washington and the triumph of Wallace Jefferson — it's that America has overcome far greater obstacles than the ones we face today.Willie Collins died in the belief that America could become a better country than the one he left home to serve. And he was right.It's up to us to be worthy of the country that Willie Collins' generation gave us. It's up to us to leave our country better off than we found it.America has never been perfect. No country composed of imperfect beings ever could be.But there is no country that has achieved more than the United States of America.With new leadership and durable reforms, America can be stronger and more prosperous than it has ever been.America can be that exceptional place, where nothing in life is guaranteed, but where we all have an equal opportunity to build a better life for ourselves and our children and their children.Thank you—and may God bless America.
Thank you. The next president will face serious issues that demand serious leadership.Because of the failed foreign policy of the Obama Administration, our 45th president will have to deal with an emboldened Iran that will have renewed access to hundreds of billions of dollars that even the Obama Administration acknowledges can be used to fund terrorism.This, combined with an agreement that amounts to nuclear appeasement, promises a major realignment in the Middle East at the expense of our Arab allies and Israel. And it will surely lead to the development of a Sunni bomb.The challenges in the Middle East extend beyond Iran.Despite White House declarations, ISIS continues to expand its territory. The atrocities continue. They have become so normal they no longer make the front page. It's a sad commentary on the state of the world.Syria remains a complicated war zone, led by a brutal dictator that our president said must go several years ago. He is still there, after crossing a red line attacking his own people with chemical weapons.And his nation is also a hotbed for jihadist recruitment.The mistakes of a few years ago leave few good options for the next president.Russian aggression has been met with strong words, but again feeble action. Putin has annexed Crimea, and invaded the mainland of Ukraine. And we have yet to even provide lethal weapons to those fighting for Ukrainian sovereignty and democracy.Mr. Putin has become the greatest threat to peace and order in Europe and parts of Asia as the message has gotten out that the American Administration speaks loudly, but is loath to use a big stick.China is threatening its neighbors, stealing our secrets, and violating trade agreements.In the face of all these threats, we are now on course to have the smallest military since June of 1940. The hollowing out of our military forces is an invitation for our enemies to test us.Gathering threats abroad are matched by storm clouds at home.The recovery is anemic, leaving millions of workers uncounted in the unemployment rate. One in ten workers are unemployed, under-employed or too discouraged to search for a job. One in seven Americans live in poverty, including more than one quarter of our African-American population that has suffered for decades under Democratic policies that lead to failed schools, few opportunities, and lives lost to poverty or crime.Our debt is at historic levels. President Obama is on course to racking up as much debt as his 43 predecessors combined.Our border is under siege, our infrastructure is aging, our entitlement programs are in fiscal jeopardy.These are, indeed, troubling times.Yet America has faced worse. And America has been blessed for more than 200 years with magnanimous leadership in the presidency, individuals who were raised beyond their personal limitations to steer the nation through war, depression and disaster to a better future for all Americans.Each one of these leaders have been repairers of the breach, such as Lincoln who — at the height of the Civil War — insisted on the completion of the Capitol Dome. He meant the world to know our Union endured. And showed it in acts small and large.Here was a president who ordered hundreds of thousands of men to war, and ultimately, to their deaths.And yet, once he had won the war and freed the slaves, after so much blood had been spilled, he set out to bind the wounds of the nation, declaring "malice toward none, with charity for all."Lincoln was a healing force who rose above great differences to preserve our union. He was a repairer of the breach.When King George the 3rd inquired what George Washington would do upon winning the war, he was told he would return to his Virginia farm.To which the king responded, "if he were to do so, he would be the greatest man of his age."Thousands of years of history had informed the world that to the victor go the spoils, that conquering heroes seize power, and reign with impunity. But George Washington reluctantly accepted the presidency, only after the Constitution had been written, guaranteeing power to the people.And because of his humility — because he never wavered from his revolutionary principles — ours was the first nation to be founded on an idea: that all "are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable rights, that among these are life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness."Even great antagonists, like Adams and Jefferson, in later life were able to put differences aside, exchanging letters until the day they both died.It was Adams who wrote a prayer about the presidency to his wife Abigail, saying, "May none but honest and wise Men ever rule under this roof."Ulysses S. Grant — the head of the Union Army, our president from 1868 to 1876 who had led a great many into battle — would come to symbolize the healing of our nation campaigning under the banner, "let us have peace."At his funeral the pallbearers would include two Union generals, and two Confederate generals, Simon Bolivar Buckner and Joseph Johnston.In more recent years we were blessed to have in the Oval Office the quiet strength of Harry Truman, the leadership of the Supreme Commander Dwight David Eisenhower, the inspiration of John F Kennedy, the vision and resolve of Ronald Reagan.During the second World War, FDR sought the power of God to preserve the nation and protect our people.These were all fallible men. But they were great men. And they all possessed a goodness and decency that allowed them to rise above the petty, the personal and the partisan for the good of the nation.The White House has been occupied by giants. But from time to time it is sought by the small-minded — divisive figures propelled by anger, and appealing to the worst instincts in the human condition.In times of trouble, there are two types of leaders: repairers of the breach and sowers of discord.The sower of discord foments agitation, thrives on division, scapegoats certain elements of society, and offers empty platitudes and promises. He is without substance when one scratches below the surface.He offers a barking carnival act that can be best described as Trumpism: a toxic mix of demagoguery, mean-spiritedness and nonsense that will lead the Republican Party to perdition if pursued.Let no one be mistaken — Donald Trump's candidacy is a cancer on conservatism, and it must be clearly diagnosed, excised and discarded.It cannot be pacified or ignored, for it will destroy a set of principles that has lifted more people out of poverty than any force in the history of the civilized world — the cause of conservatism.I feel so strongly about this because I believe conservatism is the only way forward for this country.We have tried the policies of the progressive left for the last six and a half years. The Democratic candidates for president could offer them for the next eight.Their failures are self-evident. We have never spent more money on welfare in the history of our nation, with few results to show for it.One in five children now live in families on food stamps. This is not a success of the Obama recovery, but the evidence of its failure. Millions have stopped looking for work, and are uncounted in the unemployment rate. Over-regulation has frozen access to credit from community banks,harming small businesses. ObamaCare has decreased healthcare choices, and premiums have skyrocketed.And for all the liberals' talk about income inequality, the fact is their own policies of over-regulation make the cost of living exorbitant for single moms and small business owners in blue states like California and New York.They have mastered the politics of grievance, when in reality Americans are the victim of their policies that caused the housing crash, that have produced the slowest recovery since the Great Depression, that have caused a precipitous increase in the cost of college tuition.The Democrats see the problems of their own party's making and offer to double down on them.Now Senator Sanders says college tuition should be "free." But as we know, there is no such thing as a free lunch. Forcing taxpayers to hand more of their money over to colleges will only incentivize those colleges to raise their prices even further.Secretary Clinton is now talking about profit-sharing. I believe in profit-sharing.Many of America's best companies, like Whole Foods and Apple to name just two, use profit sharing and stock options to reward their workers.But history shows that when government gets involved, there are fewer profits to be shared.Indeed, Mrs. Clinton would pay for her unwieldy, bureaucratic, one-size-fits-all plan by raising taxes on businesses, directly reducing their profits, leaving them with less ability to raise workers' salaries and invest in the future.American workers aren't looking to get something for nothing. They want to make an honest wage. They want a shot at a good job. And big government won't give it to them.That fair shot can only come from free people, and free markets, and the free market incentive known as the profit motive.Conservatism can lead us out of the Valley of Economic Ruin.It places faith in individuals, not government.It restores personal freedom instead of restricting it.It lets business owners and families keep more of what they make, so they can invest it in the economy and create jobs.I believe in a conservatism that empowers people to make the most of their lives rather than government that makes a mess of their lives.We have the highest corporate tax rate in the industrialized world. Lower it. This will bring jobs and investment back home from overseas.Democrats want to punish businesses for making the rational choice to locate their offices and factories in countries with lower taxes. Instead, we should reform our tax code to attract those companies—and many others—to our shores.We have had six and a half years of government growth. We need a policy of economic growth.We need to realize the best welfare program is a job. That welfare benefits are a means to an end, not an end. That the best welfare programs give people the tools of self-sufficiency.We need to stop pretending that we can throw money at our inner cities and hope it solves their problems.Rather than providing people incentives to stay on welfare, we need to expand on ideas like the Earned Income Tax Credit to build a bridge to the high-paying jobs of the future.We need to end regulations that lead to high-cost housing, that keep single moms living hand-to-mouth with no hope of getting ahead.We need to bring regulatory relief to small businesses that are being punished by Dodd-Frank. Financial regulations are killing Main Street rather than cleaning up Wall Street.We need to expand energy production to create jobs, and end the ban on foreign exports. Thanks to President Obama, Iran will soon have the ability to export its oil, while America is barred from doing the same.Carter era policies didn't work when he was president, they certainly won't work now!If we bring jobs and investment back home and invest in American energy, we will realize a manufacturing renaissance.Common sense, conservative economics can lead to removing barriers to trade, job creation and opportunity. They can be implemented without harming our environment.It is time we get about the business of unleashing growth in America again.Under all this lies a main premise: I trust American workers, American entrepreneurs, to do what's best for their lives and for the public interest more than I trust government.I am an optimist. I have faith in our people.Liberals don't.They profess faith in government because they look down upon the individual. But you can't raise people up by talking down to them.And if someone is not equipped to govern their own affairs, surely a colossal bureaucracy in Washington, D.C., is no better positioned to do so.We need to replace over-regulation with smart regulation. We need to overhaul the welfare state to create greater independence. We need to create incentives in the tax code for productivity and job creation, rather than for corruption and favoritism and the outsourcing of millions of jobs overseas.I believe in America.I believe in our people.I believe we can out-compete, out-produce the workers of any nation.I believe each of you can make better decisions for yourselves and your families than government.I believe in personal freedom over bureaucratic fiat.The era of the liberal nanny state must end.But it cannot be replaced by reactionary politics founded on division.We will be no better off with a Republican divider in the White House than the current Democrat divider in the White House.Donald Trump the reality television star is a great generator of ratings. But Donald Trump the candidate is a sower of division, wrongly demonizing Mexican-Americans for political sport.It is wrong to paint with a broad brush Hispanic men and women in this country who have fought and died for freedom from the Alamo to Afghanistan. He scapegoats Hispanics to appeal to our worst instincts, when we need a president who appeals to our best.This is not new in America.In the 1840's the "Know Nothings" emerged as a political movement, scapegoating Irish and German immigrants for the problems of the nation.They were obsessively anti-Catholic, so much so that when the Pope sent marble for the building of the Washington Monument, they smashed it to pieces and helped delay its construction for 35 years.These people built nothing, created nothing. They existed to cast blame and tear down certain institutions. To give outlet to anger.Donald Trump is the modern-day incarnation of the know-nothing movement.He espouses nativism, not conservatism. He is negative when conservatism is inherently optimistic.He would divide us along bloodlines, when conservatives believe our policies will work for people of all backgrounds.He has piqued the interest of some Republican voters who have legitimate concerns about a porous border and broken immigration system. But instead of offering those voters leadership or solutions, he has offered fear and soundbites. This cannot stand.Conservatism doesn't foment agitation through identity politics. That's what Democrats do. But as a supporter of socialized medicine, the stimulus package and Hillary Clinton, Mr. Trump is quite suited to follow the Democrats' example.I, for one, will not be silent when a candidate for the high office of president runs under the Republican banner by targeting millions of Hispanics, and our veterans, with mean-spirited vitriol.I will not go quiet when this cancer on conservatism threatens to metastasize into a movement of mean-spirited politics that will send the Republican Party to the same place it sent the Whig Party in 1854: the graveyard.As a veteran, I took offense to his attack on Senator McCain, and I found lacking his defense that he spent a lot of money on veterans' parades.Donald Trump was born into privilege. He received deferments to avoid service in Vietnam. He breathes the free air thousands of heroes died protecting. And he couldn't have endured for five minutes what John McCain endured for five and a half years.Think what you want about Senator McCain's politics, but let no one question his service to our country.Here was a man offered the chance to go home. He refused, knowing it could cost him his life. There was no way he would leave before any man captured before him. This is the embodiment of duty, honor, country. Mr. Trump does not know the meaning of those words.But most telling to me is not Mr. Trump's bombast, his refusal to show any remorse for his comments about Senator McCain, but his admission that there is not a single time in his life that he sought the forgiveness of God.A man too arrogant, too self-absorbed, to seek God's forgiveness is precisely the type of leader John Adams prayed would never occupy the White House.Adams, Lincoln, FDR — they all went before God on bended knee. They all held this office of great power with humility.When a candidate under the Republican banner would abandon the tradition of magnanimous leadership of the presidency, when he would seek to demonize millions of citizens, when he would stoop to attack POWs for being captured, I can only ask as Senator Welch did of Senator McCarthy, "Have you no sense of decency, sir?"My fellow Republicans, beware of false prophets. Do not let itching ears be tickled by messengers who appeal to anger, division and resentment.Resentment is the poison we swallow that we hope harms another. My fellow Republicans, don't take the poison.Scripture tells us "a house divided against itself cannot stand."The candidate who wins the Republican nomination for president will articulate the best vision of "a house united."It will be based on a conservatism that works, that appeals to our better angels, that believes in the power of individuals, through hard work and thrift, to improve our lives.We need a president who rises above personal grievances, petty differences, raw partisan politics. Who puts the nation first, who inspires Americans to believe again and produce again and dream again.We must move past the empty calories of Trumpism, and return to conservatism.Ronald Reagan put it best when discussing the stakes of the election in 1964. He said, "This is the issue of this election: whether we believe in our capacity for self-government or whether we abandon the American revolution and confess that a little intellectual elite in a far-distant capitol can plan our lives for us better than we can plan them ourselves."We shall not abandon the Revolution.We shall not give up on the animating idea of our Republic — a nation founded on the principle of "government of the people, by the people, for the people."There is nothing wrong in America that cannot be fixed with the right leadership.We need leadership that repairs the breach in America, that brings the country together, that sets our sights on greatness after a long period of pettiness.Let's get on with the business of building that America. Thank you.
Two hundred and twenty-three years ago, twenty-four businessmen gathered under a buttonwood tree four miles south of here and signed an agreement to the following effect: "We the Subscribers, Brokers for the Purchase and Sale of the Public Stock do hereby solemnly promise and pledge ourselves to each other, that we will not buy or sell from this day for any person whatsoever any kind of Public Stock at a less rate than one quarter percent Commission…"It was signed on May 17th, 1792, one of the most consequential days in U.S. history: the founding of the New York Stock Exchange.So much of what has made America the most prosperous country in the world is a result of what those 24 men signed under that tree outside of 68 Wall Street. It was also on Wall Street that George Washington took the oath of office as our first President. And it was on Wall Street that the Bill of Rights was proposed by the first United States Congress.But for a century or more, Wall Street has been famous for one thing: its role as the financial engine of the world's economy. It has funded entrepreneurs, homeowners, and the world's great innovators.However, Wall Street's reputation isn't what it once was.After the bailouts of 2008, Americans came to believe that Wall Street is out for itself. That the game is rigged. That the wealthy and the well-connected have insurmountable advantages over average Americans who simply work hard and play by the rules.At a time when average Americans have experienced stagnant wages for a quarter century — while dealing with the rising costs of health care, child care, college tuition and consumer goods — distrust with Wall Street, as well as Washington, is probably greater than any time in the modern era.And for good reason: most Americans see a special political class that spends large sums of money to wield influence, to protect entrenched interests, to advocate for special favors at the expense of taxpayers and the general public.This kind of cronyism has transformed capitalism into corporatism, where profit is secured without risk. Where government officials reward cronies in pet industries, forcing taxpayers to pick up the tab for companies like Solyndra, or quasi-public entities like Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.Wall Street should not be let off the hook for its bad behavior. Banks made a lot of mistakes regarding risk management leading up to the crisis. Some financiers intentionally misled investors and customers. They pushed people into deceptive financial products.This is wrong. But instead of them being punished, it was average Americans who paid a tremendous price.To be quite frank, they were screwed.They were not bailed out. They lost jobs, homes and savings. And they have every right to still be angry about it.But I am tired of politicians bashing Wall Street while ignoring the sins of Washington, D.C.It was Washington regulators who fell asleep at the switch. It was Washington politicians who changed laws that created the housing crisis.The roots of the financial crisis can be traced to the 1990s. President Clinton's goal was to add another 8 million people to the ranks of homeowners. He sought to achieve this goal by forcing the two federally-backed mortgage giants — Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac — to increase from 30 percent to 42 percent the share of mortgages they sponsored from low- and moderate-income borrowers.In 2000, Clinton increased the share requirement yet again, to 50 percent.In a speech on his housing policies, President Clinton said: "Our home ownership strategy will not cost the taxpayers one extra cent. It will not require legislation. It will not add more federal programs or grow federal bureaucracy."It reminds me of the promise, "if you like your doctor you can keep your doctor."The truth of the matter is many Republicans were for these changes too. In fact, Under the Bush Administration in 2008, Washington told Fannie and Freddie they wanted 56 percent of loans to go to low- and moderate-income borrowers. So it is fair to say there was bipartisan support for Fannie, Freddie and private mortgage lenders eroding their lending standards in order to meet the Clinton-era requirements.This set in motion catastrophic events. Lower-income Americans started taking out mortgages that, in many cases, they couldn't really afford. And upper-income Americans started taking advantage of the relaxed standards to buy even larger homes than the ones they already had.Prior to 1992, nearly all mortgages held by Fannie and Freddie had been purchased by Americans with good credit, who had paid at least 10-20 percent down — what bankers call prime mortgages.But by 2008, half of the mortgages in the country — 31 million of them — failed to meet the prime standard, thanks to the new Clinton regulations. And three-quarters of those non-prime mortgages were held by government agencies or government-backed entities like Fannie Mae.Not only were Americans buying homes with little or no money down, but they had no documentation of their income or assets. The banks looked away. The regulators looked away. Everyone pretended the good times would never end.When some people warned that danger was afoot, Democrats Chris Dodd and Barney Frank blocked reforms to the federal mortgage system.Said Congressman Frank, "I want to roll the dice a little bit more in this situation toward subsidized housing."Looks like Congressman Frank rolled snake-eyes.As Americans began to borrow more money to buy bigger houses, demand went up and prices went up. A whole ecosystem of lobbyists emerged to block reform, and ensure that the party could go on. People started saying that housing prices would never go down again. And then the music stopped.During the good times of the '90's, seeds were sown that would do great harm to the middle class in America.If Secretary Clinton wants to take credit for the "Clinton economy," then she must defend the destructive homeownership policies advocated by her husband that pushed shoddy loans to people who couldn't afford them, and the economic chaos that followed.Once the smoke cleared, Congress misdiagnosed the problem, passed the wrong remedy, and actually made things worse. In 2010, Chris Dodd and Barney Frank wrote a new bill that bears their name.In the five years since President Obama signed Dodd-Frank into law, Fannie and Freddie have been backing even more mortgages than they did before.During the housing bubble, taxpayers backed around 50 percent of all American mortgages. Today, they back around 60 percent of them. Thanks to Dodd-Frank's blizzard of new regulations, it has become extremely difficult for investors to set up new funds. And the law's so-called "Volcker Rule" which is supposed to prevent banks from making risky bets, has become so cumbersome that banks can't adequately manage their balance sheets.It's everyday Americans who are paying the highest price for it. Credit card and checking account fees have gone up. Nearly one million people were shut out of mainstream banking from 2009 to 2011. So instead, many turned to riskier forms of credit, such as payday loans, as lenders of last resort.Over 1,300 community banks have closed, making life for small businesses much more difficult. Yet the big banks are bigger than ever. Three decades ago, the six largest U.S. banks held assets amounting to 14 percent of our GDP. Today, it's 61 percent.If you thought the financial crisis of 2008 was bad, wait until the next serious economic downturn.The fact is the Obama Administration is pursuing some of the same reckless policies that caused the housing crash of 2007 and 2008. Fannie and Freddie are still pushing relaxed credit standards, and down payments on homes that are too low.The next crash is on the horizon, and the question is: have we learned anything from the last one?That's why, today, I am proposing a new agenda for Wall Street reform, one that will do far more than Dodd-Frank to end the era of bailouts and cronyism.If we want to truly end "too big to fail," we need to restore market forces to banking, where failure is not rewarded or bailed out.I want to be very clear: if I am elected president of the United States, we will not bail out a single bank on Wall Street.Concentrating assets in the hands of a few giant banking institutions is a recipe for massive bailouts. Systemically important banks can borrow money at lower rates, giving them a substantial competitive advantage, because investors know those banks will be bailed out in the future. It has to stop.We have to level the playing field between small banks and big ones. Second, we have to put forward smart regulations that make it less likely that the banks of the future will fail.I don't always agree with the Federal Reserve, but last week they announced the final version of a new rule that points us in a promising new direction.The Fed examined America's eight largest banks — the Global Systemically Important Banks, or G-SIBs — and the Fed required them to harbor additional capital requirements: financial cushions in case of another downturn.What's smart about this new rule is that it uses a formula to ensure that bigger and more complex banks must maintain larger capital cushions. In that way, the Fed has reduced, but not eliminated, the risk that these banks will someday fail again.The Federal Reserve and Congress should consider strengthening this rule, to help assure American taxpayers that they won't be on the hook for trillion-dollar bailouts in the future.Let me say a few more words about the Federal Reserve.I mentioned the role of Washington politicians and Wall Street financiers in the financial crisis of 2008. But it bears noting the Fed shares part of the burden too. They kept interest rates too low for too long. They created the conditions for the housing bubble that crashed in 2007 and 2008. And they are creating those conditions again.We must have steady, reliable currency. We must have a predictable money supply. And we must have market-based rules that make the Fed transparent and understandable to everyone.We also need smarter regulations than the Volcker Rule. We could once again require banks to separate their traditional commercial lending and investment banking and related practices. Alternatively, these large, one-stop-shop banks could be required to hold a significant, additional capital cushion for their trading activities.Who knows? Those banks' shareholders just might convince them to break up into smaller units on their own, in order to unlock the value of their distinct parts.We should replace Dodd-Frank's so-called "orderly liquidation authority" with a true, orderly bankruptcy process, so that banks of any size can fail. Small banks can be closed by the FDIC in a weekend. A reformed bankruptcy code for big banks can help make bailouts obsolete. In 2012, scholars at the Hoover Institution proposed adding a new Chapter 14 to the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, with this express purpose in mind.We should create regulatory breathing room for banking with digital currencies, like Bitcoin. Digital currencies harbor the possibility of reducing the cost and improving the quality of financial transactions in much the same way that the conventional internet has done for consumer goods and services.We have to free up credit for small businesses on Main Street in order to truly revive our economy. I once served on a community bank board in the small town of Haskell, Texas. I can assure you that its capital was vital to the prospects of Main Street businesses.Dodd-Frank took aim at Wall Street and ended up harming Main Street. And today, community banks are spending more time and money on legal compliance than ever before. We should exempt community banks, banks run as partnerships, and asset management firms from Dodd-Frank's onerous and excessive regulations.And let me say a word about one of Dodd-Frank's least accountable new agencies: the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. It's run by a sole director and can spend whatever the Federal Reserve wants it to spend, without Congressional review.The regulations imposed by the CFPB haven't protected consumers, they've made credit cards and checking accounts more expensive. They've also made it harder for community banks to compete and stay in business.At a minimum, we need to reform the CFPB so that its leadership and funding are accountable to Congress. We also need to put the CFPB under a strict regulatory budget, so that it doesn't do more damage to consumers than it already has.Lastly, Congress should wind down Fannie and Freddie. In the meantime, the two mortgage giants should maintain strict capital cushions, just like the big banks, and we should phase in a requirement that all loans that they sponsor are accompanied by higher, more responsible down payments.And let me be clear: if we want a vibrant home lending market in America, we need to stop the trend of pushing more and more home loans to Fannie and Freddie and start rejuvenating the private insurance market again.Before I move off of financial reform and talk about the economy more broadly, I want to discuss why Texas largely escaped the housing crash of 2007 and 2008.To put it simply, no one running for President has a stronger economic record than I do. The proof is in Texas' performance after the Great Recession.From December 2007 to December 2014, Texas added 1.5 million jobs. The rest of the country lost 400,000 jobs over that same time period. We did this by keeping our taxes low, and our regulations and frivolous lawsuits to a minimum, and by educating our kids.And significantly, Texas didn't have a housing crash like the ones they faced in Florida and Nevada. One analyst recently estimated that more than a third of Florida's job growth, under Jeb Bush's administration, was due to the housing bubble.During the Great Recession, the national house price index fell by 20 percent. In Texas, it fell by less than one percent. In 2011, 27 percent of all first mortgages in America were underwater. In Texas, only 7 percent were. Among non-prime borrowers, 54 percent of mortgages were underwater across the country, compared to only 10 percent in Texas.Part of the reason for our success is that Texas has flexible zoning laws and land use regulations. Our cities have been able to expand the supply of housing along with their expanding population.But there's another thing we have in Texas that the rest of the country could learn from: we regulate, in an intelligent way, the use of a type of mortgage called "cash-out refinancing."During the housing bubble, in most parts of the country, American homeowners could take advantage of an increase in the value of their home to refinance their mortgage and take cash out, as if their house was their own ATM.For many Americans, this was a great financial resource. But for some, it was a way to borrow and spend even more than they otherwise would have. Where cash-out refis were common, the housing bubble got worse.The problem was that when the bubble burst, homeowners who had done cash-out refis at the peak were suddenly underwater with their loans, and many went into default.In Texas, we've been regulating cash-out refis since our great state joined the Union. Today, we limit the amount of cash you can take out of your home to 80 percent of its value.This simple rule protected Texas from the worst of the housing crisis. We can stabilize the housing market across America, if Fannie and Freddie are required to hold their loans to the same standard.If we do these things — if we end too big to fail, and stabilize our housing markets — we will have come a long way in restoring Americans' faith in the ability of the free market economy to work for them.But what's most important, for both Main Street and Wall Street, is that we get our economy back on track.There is nothing wrong in America today that can't be fixed with new leadership. We're just a few good decisions away from unleashing tremendous growth.But there is a major battle concerning the right economic policy for America.Democrats have a 1915 view of the 2015 economy.The problem is they are building a toll bridge to the 21st Century, with higher health care costs for employers, a higher cost of living for single moms in blue states because of their land use policies.Now Hillary Clinton wants to raise capital gains taxes.She thought it was a bad idea in 2008. Her husband cut capital gains in the 90's. But now that she is a proponent of Warrenism, she is for taxing capital gains, which is already double-taxation on Americans.And here is where Democrats are blind to the effects of their policies: Secretary Clinton's plan won't do much harm to rich people who can offshore jobs, capital and investment, but it will harm average Americans, who can't hire an army of accountants to lower their tax burden.When you kill "risk capital" you kill economic growth. And economic growth is the only solution to stagnant wages.The answer to the failed Obama-Clinton policies is not to raise taxes more. It is not to amp up the regulatory state. It is not to protest the innovation economy and companies like Uber because of antiquated views on labor.The answer is growth.Growth is the key to funding education. Growth is the key to funding health care. Growth is the key to reducing poverty. And growth is the key to investing in our military, and stopping the march of tyrants and terrorists around the globe.If we set our sights on four percent growth or higher, instead of the two percent growth of the Obama years, we can solve a whole host of challenges in America.To get there, we need to stop taxing businesses at a higher rate than any country in the Western world. We need to significantly lower corporate rates to bring jobs and investment back on shore, and to lift wages for workers.We need to dramatically cut taxes for businesses of all sizes. And we need to cut taxes on individuals and families.It's wrong that Americans have to work two jobs just to afford the increased premiums posed by ObamaCare, the increased housing prices spiked by big city, liberal mayors, or the increased tuition charged by Ivory Tower elites.And as America emerges as the leading energy power of the 21st century, we must legalize the export of our oil and natural gas.Thanks to President Obama, Iran will soon be able to export its energy. Maybe it is time he allowed America to do the same.If you elect me president, I will reform Wall Street and I will reform Washington.We have a lot of Washington insiders running for President. But I will suggest true change can only come in the form of an outsider, with the leadership of a governor who was not one vote out of 100, but one out of one when a bill came to his desk.We need someone not beholden to Washington interests and megabanks to lead the country and change the culture.As someone who grew up on the prairies of West Texas, I know that the common sense of Main Street can help make Wall Street work again for all Americans, not just the well-connected few.It can be done. It will be done.If there is one thing we can learn from the 24 visionaries who met at the Buttonwood Tree, and from those who lived through the American Revolution and the Civil War and the Great Depression, it's that America has overcome far greater obstacles than the ones we face today.America can still be that exceptional country, where nothing in life is guaranteed, but where we all have an equal opportunity to build a better life for ourselves, our children and our children's children.Thank you—and may God bless you.
Thank you. It is such an honor to speak to the patriots of Eagle Forum. In case you didn't know, we have a pretty vibrant chapter in Texas. They have long lived up to the standard set by your outstanding founder, whom I am proud to recognize today, Phyllis Schlafly.I also want to say a word about the gentleman who is taking over for Phyllis. Ed Martin is a good man — a great leader — a movement conservative who leads by conviction. I am glad to be in his home state of Missouri.46 years ago I spent a summer in Festus, Missouri. I went door to door, selling Bibles. It was then that I learned what it was like to remain optimistic in the face of rejection, especially when I knew the power of the message I was selling.It was good preparation for life in politics.For me, this life has been a dream.I came from a place called Paint Creek. Too small to be called a town, too remote to be found on a map, it was the center of my universe.We had an outhouse, and mom bathed us in a number two washtub on the porch. We farmed vast fields of cotton, and attended the Paint Creek Rural School. I was a six-man football player, a proud member of Boy Scout Troop 48, and an Eagle Scout.I experienced the bonds of family, the power of community, the meaning of faith. And I learned the high calling we have as Americans to protect freedom.It was for freedom that I wore the uniform of the United States Air Force. I flew C-130 aircraft all across the globe. I lived in places like Saudi Arabia and Turkey. I learned how special it is to be an American.Later I would become a state representative, ag commissioner, lieutenant governor, and eventually governor of the world's 12th largest economy.I would truly live the motto of the Paint Creek Rural School: "no dream to tall for a school so small."I continue to draw inspiration from a trip I took with my father fifteen years ago.Dad and I went back to his old air base in England for his first visit in 55 years. Then we crossed the channel and visited the American cemetery that overlooks the bluffs at Omaha beach. That flight across the channel he had taken 35 times previously, as a tailgunner on a B-17.On that peaceful, wind-swept setting, there lie 9,000 graves, including 45 pairs of brothers, 33 of whom are buried side by side, a father and a son, two sons of a president. They all traded their future for ours in a final act of loving sacrifice.In that American Cemetery, it is no accident each headstone faces west: west over the Atlantic, towards the nation they defended, the nation they loved, the nation they would never come home to.It struck me as I stood in the midst of those heroes that they look upon us in silent judgment. And that we must ask ourselves: are we worthy of their sacrifice?The truth is we are at the end of an era of failed leadership.We have been led by a divider who has sliced and diced the electorate, pitting American against American for political purposes. We are a country more divided by race, income, religion and party than when he entered office.His lofty words were no match for the reality of the world.How long ago it seems now the speeches before fawning millions in Europe, in front of Roman columns in Denver. We were told America needed to improve its reputation abroad. Now we are neither liked nor respected.That's what happens when a president governs based on popular acclamation, instead of based on enduring American values.We have isolated our allies, and emboldened our adversaries.ISIS has ripped a swath through the Middle East as large as Great Britain. It could have been prevented. But a naïve campaign promise took priority over stability, and even the blood shed by American heroes. Today, the president remains in denial about the weakness that led to their emergence, and even the nature of the threat. With political correctness expected of a Harvard professor, he refuses to admit we are at war with radical Islam. Mr. President, we are at war with radical Islam.Naïve policies gave us the Iranian nuclear deal — an agreement that fuels Iran's nuclear ambitions rather than prohibiting them. A president who boldly claimed it was his goal to rid the world of nuclear weapons will have a legacy of nuclear proliferation. All because he places his trust in a regime that is the leading sponsor of state terrorism, in the word of radicals, in inspections that can be easily manipulated.My friends, this is not the America I know.Neither is a domestic economy that settles for two percent growth, and neither is a president who ignores the Constitution and issues executive orders to make law.Washington needs to return to doing its constitutional duty: standing up a strong military, implementing foreign policy from a policy of strength, not weakness, and securing the border with Mexico. And they need to get out of the education business, get out of the healthcare business, and stop utilizing EPA zealots to shut down small business.Washington is not the fount of all wisdom. The best ideas come from the states.Liberal Justice Lewis Brandeis once said, "that a single courageous state may, if its citizens choose, serve as a laboratory; and try novel social and economic experiments without risk to the rest of the country."Each state should chart its own course, whether it is Governor Haley fighting the unions to bring Boeing and Michelin to South Carolina, or Bobby Jindal standing up for school choice. I support the right of states to be wrong, like Colorado legalizing pot. I would rather one state get it wrong than the whole country.Today Washington has discarded the Tenth Amendment, centralizing power while failing to meet the test of leadership.Our present-day leaders would have us settle for low expectations, low growth, record numbers out of the workforce. To them, two percent growth is the new norm. They want us to embrace their vision of mediocrity. I, for one, will not.As Americans we have the power to make the world new again.But let me issue a couple warnings. First, the answer to a president nominated for soaring rhetoric and no record is not to nominate a candidate whose rhetoric speaks louder than his record. It is not to replicate the Democrat model of selecting a president, falling for the cult of personality over durable life qualities.Only in Washington do they define fighting as filibustering, leading as debating.Where I come from, talk is cheap. And leadership is not what you say, but what you do.Missouri is the "show me state", and this must be a "show me, don't tell me" election, where we get beyond the rhetoric to the record to see who has been tested, who has led and who can be expected to stand in the face of fire.And for the record, if a candidate can't take tough questions from a reporter, how will they deal with the president of Russia, the leaders of China or the fanatics in Iran?My second warning is this: we cannot indulge nativist appeals that divide the nation further. The answer to our current divider-in-chief is not to elect a Republican divider-in-chief.Conservatism is inherently optimistic. It celebrates the power of the individual, it believes in free markets over state-controlled solutions. It knows free individuals can govern their own lives better than centralized government.Progressives think we need to protect the people from themselves. Conservatives think we need to protect the people from government.We have had too much government — too many government answers, too much government meddling — all at the expense of individual freedom.We need to get back to the central constitutional principle that, in America it is the content of your character that matters, not the color of your skin — that it doesn't matter where you come from, but where you are going. In an America blind to color, that champions the individual, that recognizes merit, there is no room for debate that denigrates certain people based on their heritage or origin.We can secure the border and reform our immigration system without inflammatory rhetoric, without base appeals that divide us based on race, culture and creed.Let me be crystal clear: for those of us in Christ, our citizenship is first and foremost in God's kingdom, our brothers and sisters are those made in the image of God, and our obligation — after loving God with all our heart, mind and soul — is to love our neighbors as ourselves, regardless of where they come from.Demeaning people of Hispanic heritage is not just ignorant, it betrays the example of Christ. We can enforce our laws and our borders, and we can love all who live within our borders, without betraying our values.It is time to elevate our debate from divisive name-calling, from soundbites without solutions, and start discussing how we will make the country better for all if a conservative is elected president.And let me say, I know something about enacting conservative principles. We have done it in Texas.During my 14 years as governor, Texas created nearly one-third of all new American jobs. We passed balanced budgets, cut taxes, set aside billions of dollars for a rainy day, and elevated our graduation rates to second highest in the nation.We did this based on conservative principles: Don't tax too much, don't spend all the money, invest in an educated workforce, and stop frivolous lawsuits at the courthouse.It can be done, all across America, with the right leadership.2016 is the most important election of our lifetime. I know we say this every election, but this time it is actually true. It is true because we have had six and a half years of an expanding welfare state, and a contracting freedom state.There are two visions for America: the government-run welfare state of Washington, New York and California, and the limited government freedom state pioneered in places like Texas.The centralized state offers more regulations, and less freedom. A world where everything costs more, from college tuition, to the cost of housing, to the price of government.Their answer to our current economic mess is more government solutions, more tax dollars placed in the hands of bureaucrats, more redistribution schemes, and a shrinking pie for the middle class.As Margaret Thatcher once said, "the problem with socialism is that eventually you run out of other people's money."But it doesn't have to be that way. With the right nominee, we can cut taxes on corporations and individuals, unleash growth, create jobs, and lift wages. We can create opportunity by drilling for American energy and selling it around the world.We can restore our reputation abroad by reasserting our moral authority, by standing with allies like Israel, and standing up to adversaries like Iran.We can be the America we know in our hearts we are meant to be — a nation of ideas and innovations, a place where freedom flourishes, that special land that the heroes of Normandy died to defend.Conservative principles applied consistently will make life better for all, but especially minority Americans. More African-Americans are living in poverty since President Obama took office. That's because he offers them government programs, instead of creating new incentives for people to work.We can improve life for minority Americans. The formula is simple: stop politically correct regulation policies that make housing so expensive for single moms, let low and middle-income Americans keep more of what they make, challenge all kids to exceed in school.We did that in Texas, and now we have the highest graduation rate for minority students.For me, the message has always been greater than the man. The conservative movement has always been about principles, not personalities. Our nominee should embody those principles. He — or she — must make the case for the cause of conservatism more than the cause of their own celebrity.I still believe in the power of that message — a message that offers hope, redemption and solace in the midst of storms.When I gave my life to Christ, I said, "your ways are greater than my ways. Your will superior to mine."Today I submit that His will remains a mystery, but some things have become clear.That is why today I am suspending my campaign for the presidency of the United States.We have a tremendous field — the best in a generation — so I step aside knowing our party is in good hands, and as long as we listen to the grassroots, the cause of conservatism will be too.I share this news with no regrets. It has been a privilege and an honor to travel this country, to speak with the American people about their hopes and dreams, to see a sense of optimism prevalent despite a season of cynical politics.And as I approach the next chapter in life, I do so with the love of my life by my side, Anita Perry. We have our house in the country, we have two beautiful children and two adorable grandchildren, four dogs, and the best sunset from our front porch that you could ever imagine.Life is good. And I am a blessed man.I remain as convinced as ever: there is nothing wrong with America today that cannot be fixed with new leadership. Leadership that champions conservative ideas.As great as our greatest Republican presidents were — from Lincoln to Reagan — it is their ideas that remain greatest.Those ideas live on through the spirit, idealism and optimism of this generation of Americans.We must return to great ideas, to our belief in the power of free individuals, free markets, and free Americans standing watch for liberty wherever it is threated.This is up to us. It is up to you. And to me. Let's roll up our sleeves. Let's get to work. Let's make America, America again.Thank you. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America.
