I want to thank you so much! What an amazing feeling to be up here with the folks who've made it possible for me. You know I would start with my family. I just want to thank Karen, my sweetheart, all my kids, for all the sacrifices they made so we could be here today. I love you more than words. God bless you. Thank you so much. [Applause] As you can see, we brought a little special gift up. That is our daughter Bella, who just turned seven years old a couple of weeks ago. [Applause] Bella also requested that she could go play during this speech, so we are going to let her go. I know the stage looks densely populated with our family, but we are actually still missing one member of our family, and that is our son Daniel, who just last week went to field training in the Air Force down in Alabama. Daniel, I am proud of you. Thank you. [Applause] And I also have to thank Penn United Technologies. We have disrupted this entire place for a week. God bless you Bill and Becky. Everybody, thank you. [Applause]And I just want to thank all of you for being here, for taking time out of your work you're your schedule. For many of you—there are people from 32 states that are here tonight. I want to thank you for being here. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a piece of coal. This is where my American story started. My grandfather, Pietro, was a coal miner who brought my dad, seven-year-old Aldo, from fascist Italy. Like millions of other Americans, he didn't come for this [holds up coal]. He came for this—freedom [holds up folded US flag]. [Applause] My dad grew up in a coal town, actually a company town, during the depression. Without indoor plumbing.It took a war to get him out of that coal town off to the Pacific. Than the G.I. Bill to college. And, then to a veterans hospital in West Virginia. It's there he met a wonderful nurse, Catherine Dughi, who is my mom. [Applause] Mom is 96, she shouldn't be here today. I just want to say hello to my Mom who I know is watching. They took me on a voyage at seven years of age from West Virginia to Butler, Pennsylvania. [Applause] We lived on the VA post in World War II government apartments surrounded by our nations' veterans. Most of my friends, though, their dads worked in the mills and the mines. They got off shift and coached us in sports and in life. They were the generation of God-fearing people who built this country and, at the same time, were the foundation of the country. In the late 70's, like many of you, we saw the economic devastation in south-western Pennsylvania but across this country, particularly in the area of manufacturing, as a result of the excesses and indifference of big labor, big government, and, yes, big business. In in south-western Pennsylvania, the epicenter, we lost over 100,000 jobs in what seemed to be overnight. That has to and did leave a mark on all of us. Afterwards, big government and big business told our workers that times have changed. American workers could no longer compete with low foreign wages. And that those jobs were gone forever. Well, what about those politicians? For all those years, what did they do? What did they do for communities across this area and across this country and small town America? They had no plan and they provided no hope. And to that, I say, no longer. [Applause] As middle America is hollowing out, we cannot sit idly by as big government politicians make it harder for our workers and then turn around and blame them for losing jobs overseas. Working families don't need another president tied to big government or big money. And, today is the day. . .today is the day we are going to begin to fight back. [Applause] I am proud to stand here among you and for you, the American workers who have sacrificed so much. To announce that I am running for President of the United States. [Applause] I offer a bold vision for America, one that is clear and conservative. That has plans for reform and a proven track record that I have from my time in service. Step one in taking back America—step one, let's grab the corrupt federal tax code and the IRS that goes with it. [Applause] It is time to give America a simple, fair, flat tax. [Applause] It will create millions of good paying jobs. It will rebuild our factories and it will increase take-home pay for workers in America powered by the shale revolution and the renewable revolution. Powered by those two revolutions, we have regained the title of world leader in energy production. [Applause] With low-cost energy and our bold plan, I promise you — we will regain the title of a leader in world manufacturing. [Applause] And that's not all. We will shrink government, we will reduce spending, we will revoke every Executive Order and regulation — [Applause] We will revoke every Executive Order and regulation that cost American jobs. [Applause] From day one, we will work to bring back America and put Americans back to work. [Applause]American workers deserve a shot at these jobs. Over the last 20 years, we have brought into this country, legally and illegally, 35 million mostly unskilled workers. The result over that same period of time? Workers' wages and family incomes have flatlined. Hillary Clinton and big business, they have called for a massive influx in unskilled labor. Business does it because they want to control costs. Hillary does it, well, she just wants votes. Their priorities are profits and power. My priority is you, the American worker. [Applause] You don't believe me, don't take my word for it. Yesterday, the largest pro-worker immigration group just published a survey that showed that only one candidate got an "A" standing behind American workers, and he's standing here today. [Applause] We can create jobs, but, as we've all seen, America can't succeed unless we strengthen the first economy — the American family. [Applause] It's time we have a president who sees the struggle of working families in America not as an opportunity to divide us along race or class but as a chance to unite us around the ideal that every child in America deserves her birthright—to be raised by her parents in a healthy home. [Applause] Stronger families and more jobs will result in better schools. But our children, well, they deserve an education customized, customized, to maximize their potential. [Applause] The first step in that process is joining me to drive a stake in the heart of Common Core. [Applause]I cannot forget about the other people I grew up out at the VA in Butler — our wounded warriors. I saw the price of freedom. I saw the cost of failed political leadership. The Obama-Clinton team, they don't understand that peace comes through strength. [Applause] Audience: USA, USA, USA. But, when I see our heroic veterans dying, waiting in line at the VA because these very same leaders don't care enough to give them what they've earned—the best medical care in the world—I say join me, take back America, and help these veterans. [Applause] As you've seen, Commander-in-Chief is not an entry-level position. And the White House is the last place for on-the-job training. It's critical that both our allies and our friends know what to expect from our next president. [Applause] Last month, I was featured in an online magazine. That's usually a good thing. But in this case, the online magazine was the magazine of the Islamic State, ISIS. Under the headline, under the headline, in the words of our enemy, was my picture and a quote. After 12 years of legislating and warning about the gathering storm of radical Islam, they know who I am. And I know who they are. [Applause] In that article, I described who they are and how to defeat them. And ladies and gentlemen, if I'm the next President, we will defeat them. [Applause] Finally, we must take back America from those who seek to deny us our God-given rights of life and liberty. As President, I will stand for the principle that every life matters—the poor, the disabled, and the unborn. [Applause] I will also fight for the freedom for you to believe what you are called to believe, not just in your places of worship, but outside of your places of worship, too. [Applause] Karen and I have learned a lot in our life. If there is one thing we've learned, man is limited and God is not. [Applause]There's much that we can do. But first, we need to pray for the same kind of great awakening that inspired and provided our founding to come to this country to heal our land. [Applause] Now, if you watch any of these announcements here comin' up this week, you are going to see a lot of folks saying what they are going to do. That is what they do. How do you know who to trust? You look at their record. I went to Washington and said I was going to fight corruption. And I delivered. [Applause] I went to end welfare, to reduce poverty, and to put people back to work. And I delivered. [Applause] I went to give patients control over their health care through Health Savings Accounts, and I delivered. [Applause] I went to end partial-birth abortion, and I delivered. [Applause] I went to impose sanctions on Syria and Iran protect the State of Israel and this country, and I delivered. [Applause]And I went to cut taxes and promised never to raise them. And I delivered. [Applause] Our record of standing for you and standing up against big government is clear. Ninety-two% conservative voting record. How does someone like that get elected in the Monde Valley of Pittsburgh in one of the most Democratic areas of this state? How does someone with a conservative voting record get elected twice to the state of Pennsylvania, where there is almost a million more registered Democrats than Republicans? Because I stood for you and against big government in Washington DC. [Applause] Fighting in those races both here in south-western Pennsylvania and in Pennsylvania, I know what it's like to be an underdog. Four years ago, well, no one gave us much of a chance. But we won 11 states. [Applause] We got 4 million votes. And it's not just because I stood for something. It is because I stood for someone—the American worker. [Applause] I promised then as I promise you now, I will take money and power out of Washington and put it back where our Constitution says it belongs—in the people who earned it. [Applause] Audience: Rick, Rick, Rick The last race, we changed the debate. This race, with your help, and God's grace, we can change this nation. [Applause] Join us! Join us! Ricksantorum.com. And let's take back America. God bless you. And God bless America.
I am the son of an Italian immigrant. My father's journey to America rescued him from a childhood as a "brown shirt" and likely some cog in Mussolini's war machine.But it wasn't as easy as simply boarding a ship and coming to America for my dad.My Italian-speaking grandfather was able to come to America in order to flee this new fascist regime in 1923 in spite of the Emergency Quota Act of 1921 that limited Italian immigrants to just a few thousand Italians per year. Turns out that his hometown in Italy was part of Austria before World War I, so my grandfather was considered an Austrian. He was able to come but wasn't unable to bring his Italian children with him.In 1930, he became a citizen after working most of that time in the coalmines of southwestern Pennsylvania. He was then able to unite with his family in America.When my father told me about our family's journey to America, I asked him the natural question: "Did you resent America for keeping you away from your father and in a fascist country for the first seven years of your life?" He said "no, America was worth the wait."He was right. America was worth the wait, because we have been a country that puts the law above the people making and executing that law. The greatest protection each of us has is that no one, NO ONE, in America is above the law, including presidents, judges and, yes, immigrants.The laws that kept my father and grandfather apart were passed because our nation needed to balance labor markets, national security interests, or any number of legitimate reasons for limiting an inflow of new immigrants. But the Immigration Acts of 1921 and 1924 targeted Italians and Jews in part because of concerns about assimilation and in part because of rank prejudice.Oddly enough, the laws in place today were last significantly altered in 1990 in a bill authored by Ted Kennedy. It is nothing like the laws of the 1920s which limited immigration not just in nationality but also in number to 178,000 people per year for what turned out to be 40 years. The Kennedy bill was designed to remove the need for illegal immigration by increasing the number of legal immigrants to over a million per year.It hasn't worked. Thanks to the incentives offered by President Obama and bills like the Gang of Eight immigration proposal, last year the number of illegal immigrants rose to almost 700,000. That brings the total number of immigrants in this country to a record 42 million immigrants comprising 13.3% of the US population, the highest level in 105 years.Is this flood of immigrants in the national interest? That is question we should ask about all of our laws isn't it? Immigration laws should serve the interest of the American people. Since immigration involves labor markets one key requirement of any plan is that it improves opportunities for better jobs and better wages by stimulating growth.Let's look at the numbers. Without a doubt increased immigration has held down the cost of labor leading to higher profits for businesses, but has it caused growth that has led to higher wages, particularly for workers who these immigrants compete against for jobs? Real hourly wages have increased by about one dollar in the past 25 years and have slightly declined during this presidency. From 2000 to 2014 there were 5.7 million net new jobs created for workers aged 16-65 and all of them went to immigrants in spite of a 17 million increase in native born workers.Democrats like Hillary Clinton say they are for the American worker yet they demand amnesty and huge increases in the number of immigrants for one overriding reason, votes, which leads to political power.They have no interest in fixing our broken immigration system. The President had filibuster proof majorities in Congress his first two years in office, majorities so strong that he was able to ram through ObamaCare – yet he never even introduced an immigration reform bill. To the president and Mrs. Clinton immigration is only about dividing America by injecting ethnic and racial politics into this debate, not doing right by struggling American workers. Immigration is just another example of how Mrs. Clinton has abandoned the millions of Americans who want the opportunity to work and provide for themselves and their families by using divisive identity politics to gain more power.What I will be proposing today is in direct contrast to Hillary's vision. My proposal says to American workers of all races, genders, and ethnicities that you are welcome to an America that will provide you the opportunity to rise if you work hard and obey the law. My proposal is based on hope and opportunity, not fear and bigotry.The establishment, big business community is not much better.They see immigrant workers as a way of diluting the labor market and lowering labor costs. To them, workers are commodities and increasing the labor supply means more bottom line profitability.Workers are not commodities these are real people, with real families, who have mortgages to pay and mouths to feed, and they deserve leaders who will put them first.That is why I am here today! I am not running for President for the sake of power or profit, I am running for President to fight for real people, who have real families, and who are struggling to make ends meet.Over the past twenty years, nearly 35 million legal and illegal immigrants have come to our shores. This is the largest mass immigration America has seen in our history – even surpassing the Great Wave from the turn of the 20th Century. These immigrants are largely unskilled and low-skilled labor and they are competing for the same jobs as the 74% of Americans who do not have a college degree.Because labor supply and demand works, corporate profits are up and executives and share holders are doing well. But the American worker has seen their wages stagnant for over a decade. The American worker is struggling and as a result the American family is struggling.I know some of the establishment of my Party roll their eyes whenever I make this point. I see it when I'm in Manhattan's corporate boardrooms, Party fundraisers, and business dinners. Contrary to what the elites along the coasts think, the economy does not start on Wall Street and end at Route 128. The economy starts with the family and includes many routes and streets, including Main Street.The American family is the first economy. Just like a business, each family needs revenue, pays expenses, and at the end of the month the books must balance.As families struggle in this ever competitive labor market, we must make sure our policies do not throw up further roadblocks and dead ends to their ability to succeed. We must rebuild this first economy, and one step is to ensure we have a responsible immigration policy that puts the American worker and their families first.Up until a few days ago I was the only candidate in this race who put forward a legal and illegal immigration proposal that puts the American worker first. I wanted to use this opportunity to flesh out those proposals and cast a vision for a stronger, healthier and more prosperous America.This plan will fix our broken system that has served as a catalyst to economic stagnation, soaring government spending and lawlessness that threatens our personal and national security.I am not new to this debate. Nearly a decade ago, I authored border security legislation that stood in contrast to the legislation President Bush and Senator Kennedy advocated. Unlike some who are running for President today, I was never a member of a Senate "gang," because I understood amnesty was not a solution but a perpetuation of a problem.Whether it was the path to citizenship in the Gang of Eight bill or the right to a permanent work permit supported by Ted Cruz and others, it is amnesty. Those workers who serve as grounds keepers or waiters, bartenders and maids, they are the hard-working Americans who are being hurt most by record levels of legal and illegal immigration. They are the blue collar Americans who are in direct competition with cheap, and at times illegal, immigrant labor. Amnesty will make competition more fierce, encourage more illegal immigration and further depress wages.As important as the debate over illegal immigration is, we can't just speak about securing our borders and turn a blind eye to an entire system that hurts American workers. Until this spring I was the only candidate who had a message focused on helping American workers by putting common sense limits on this surge of immigrants. Governor Walker was first to change his position and with few specifics call for limits on immigration. Now Donald Trump has joined a majority of Americans and me with some ideas on helping to put American workers first. I welcome them both and encourage all the candidates and all Americans to listen to my vision for how we make America stronger.Let's face it, the problem with illegal immigration can mostly be solved immediately because it doesn't involve changing the law, it simply requires the current laws to be enforced!The president today has the authority and the access to resources to secure our border. Let me be clear. I will do what five presidents have promised the American people. I will control our border. I will build hundreds of miles of new walls, use state of the art technology and deploy whatever manpower necessary to secure our border with Mexico. I will end the catch and release policy of this administration and have personnel deployed so as to maximize apprehensions at the border. It is time to stop the bait and switch game with the American worker.While I won't demand the government of Mexico to build the wall, I want US workers to do that, I will make it clear to the Mexican government they must stop facilitating this lawlessness on the border and cooperate with our efforts. I will do all I can to change Mexico's behavior to the benefit of both countries. However, if they fail to cooperate I am prepared to stop authorizing border crossing cards as a first step in getting their cooperation.Visa overstays is one of the largest – if not the largest – factor contributing to our illegal immigrant population. The defacto policy of this administration is to track visa entries, but not exits. I will do what no previous Administration has. I will enforce the law by implementing a biometric tracking system for every immigrant who enters America so we can track who is here and who has overstayed their visa. Anyone apprehended who has overstayed their visa should be subject to fines and then subsequently removed.I will end the practice of sanctuary cities by withholding federal funds from any city that refuses to cooperate with federal authorities. I support Kate's Law and with it ending the policy that resulted in 30,000 criminal illegal immigrants being released from prison because their native country won't accept them. I will exercise my authority to deny visas to any foreign countries that will not take responsibility for their people.The federal government has to end policies that have encouraged millions to break the law. I will put an end to president Obama's unconstitutional executive amnesty which is largely responsible for the latest border surge.I will push for congressional action to require all businesses use e-verify for all employees to assure those who play by the rules are rewarded and employers who hire illegal immigrants are held accountable.I will propose we join every other developed country in the world save one, and put an end to automatic citizenship for children born here to illegal immigrants.This enforcement of, by in large, existing law will dramatically reduce the number of illegal immigrants competing against legal workers for jobs in America. However, reducing the number of illegal immigrants will not be sufficient to help struggling American workers.I am proposing two changes to the legal immigration system that will reduce the supply of lower skilled adults holding wages down in America. Like Jeb Bush I am proposing eliminating both the visa lottery and chain migration. Unlike Jeb I will not be increasing other categories. These changes will result in a 25% reduction in legal immigration. This is in stark contrast with every Republican presidential candidate except Trump who says he also wants to return to historical averages. Some like Ted Cruz have actually proposed doubling legal immigration.I believe immigration can be a very good thing. But as with anything, there can also be too much of a good thing. When our labor markets cannot manage the influx we are receiving, then it is time to recalibrate.This is not anti-immigrant, this is pro- worker, especially those who are most affected by waves of new workers – recent immigrants, minorities and younger workers.Even skilled workers have been hurt by our current system. This year Disney laid off Americans and replaced them with cheap foreign labor and Southern California Edison had the nerve to have its American workers train their foreign replacements under the H1B visa program. There is an oversupply of American workers who can fill entry level tech jobs coming out of our education system. They should be given the opportunity to get work in their chosen field, grow in experience and rise.I propose overhauling the H1-B visa program so that only the highest skilled workers who can stimulate the economy, and create more jobs here at home are eligible. Again this is in stark contrast with other Republicans particularly Ted Cruz who seeks to quintuple H1Bs.But in the same vein, there is a sector of our economy that has needs that are not currently being met by US workers – namely agriculture. Of the over 400 job classifications at the Department of Commerce, only a handful are the majority of workers in that category immigrant workers. Most are in agriculture. For illegal immigrant workers who are in these classifications, I will provide the opportunity for their employers to pay an annual fee to permit these workers to continue to work as temporary guest workers.As my father said, America is worth the wait and it is worth doing it right. This means we need an immigration policy that rewards those who do it right, an immigration policy that fits our economic needs, and an immigration policy that puts the American worker first.I was asked in the first presidential debate how I would explain the enforcement of our immigration laws to the child of an illegal immigrant. I said our compassion as a nation is found in our laws because we treat everyone equally under those laws. This must be true for our immigration laws.Having an immigration system that turns its back on American citizens and legal immigrants so that more immigrants can come to our shores at a time when there are not enough good paying jobs to meet their needs is not compassionate.What is compassionate is an immigration system that not only says we want you in America, but says we can give you the opportunity to rise and reach the American dream each and every immigrant strives to achieve.That will be my policy as President.
Thank you. Thank you. [applause] Thank you very much, Gill. Thank you so much for being here. You know, I've been here to every single Value Voter Summit. [cheers and applause] And, you know, one of the things - I was in Iowa the other day, in Osceola, Iowa. Of course, all of you have been there, right? And I was introduced by Chuck Grassley. And Chuck got up and sort of hemmed and hawed a little bit about what to say. And he said, well, let me just say this: The one thing I can say about Rick Santorum is I've known him for 20 years and he hasn't changed a bit. [laughter] You know, I think that's about as high a compliment as you can get in this town of Washington, D.C., right? [cheers and applause]We just had someone step down today who, in my opinion, changed a bit and it's probably time for him to have stepped down to start a new chapter here in Washington, D.C. [cheers and applause] I come here every year and I talk to you to thank you, to thank you for standing up and bringing to this city the issues that are at the core of the problems in this country. America is never going to be a great country if we're a country that kills our children in the womb, ever. [applause] We are never going to be blessed by God if we're a country that kills our children in the womb. We are never going to be a great country if we allow for the destruction of the American family that's what's happened over the past 50 years. And thank you for coming here and for standing for truth, standing for what you know is right and best for this country.You know, we have a lot of candidates for president who will come up here on stage. And they'll rile you up and talk to you about all the things that they're going to do. But here's the best way to determine whether you can trust the person who's coming before you. Look at their record. Look at what they've accomplished. Look at what they've fought for. Look at what they have paid a price for. I came to Washington, D.C., and I'll have to be honest with you, I was pro-life - but I wasn't a pro-life warrior. It was only in a situation that's similar to what's happening here with Planned Parenthood, when we were made aware of this issue called partial-birth abortion, this horrific procedure.I know about this procedure. I was on CNN the other day and we were talking about - I was talking with Chris Cuomo, not always a fun, necessarily, thing to do. And we were talking about the Planned Parenthood videos, and I said: Not only should we defund Planned Parenthood, we should be prosecuting Planned Parenthood. [cheers and applause] And he got very upset with me. Said, what do you mean? He said, what laws have they broken? I said, well, the procedures that we saw described in these videos I know very well, because they were partial-birth abortions. And he says, well, OK, but, you know, how do you know that that's against the law? I said, because I wrote the law. I know that it's against the law. [cheers and applause]We have been fighting these battles, I have been standing in the forefront for year after year after year fighting the battles on life. And we see right now that we have people in Congress, we have people even in the leadership of our party who, when given the opportunity to raise up an issue and focus America's attention on the horror of abortion, they retreat and refuse to fight. They think they can't win the battle, so they give up before it's even fought. Ladies and gentleman, there are a lot of people going to come up here and ask you for your support, and they're going to tell you that they're with you. Here's what I would say, have you been disappointed enough by people who promise you things and don't deliver? Have you seen folks that you thought were with you, and then you realize when it got tough they weren't willing to get into the trenches and fight?And here's what I would say. You know one person in this race who is always willing to fight for live, always willing to fight for the family. Every major piece of pro-life legislation that's passed in the last 20 years I was the author of and I led the fight on the floor of the Senate. And I didn't come from a safe state - [applause] - I didn't come from a safe state where you can easily vote that way, much less lead that way. Well, a lot of people come up here and tell you they're for marriage, but you know what? Ten of the 14 Republican candidates have said this: Oh, well, it's the law of the land. It's time to move on. Really? We have a United States Supreme Court that, according to several of the justice on that court in the dissent, acted unconstitutionally. [cheers] Oh, it's time to move on when the court acts unconstitutionally?We have a United States Supreme Court who has directly assaulted the First Amendment of our Constitution. And 10 of the 14 candidates say, oh, it's time to move on. We have a United States Supreme Court that says marriage has nothing to do with children - [laughter] - that marriage is about adults. And 10 out of the 14 Republican candidates say it's time to move on. If you're not willing to fight for the Constitution, for the First Amendment, and for the American family, why are you running for president as a Republican? [cheers and applause]Tell you a little story. Four years ago I was in one of these meetings with all these big donors in New York. And they had gone through all the Republican candidates, I was the last one that they had. And I sat down with them and they were interviewing me like they had all the other Republican candidates. And they asked me a question on abortion. I answered it. They asked a second question on abortion. I answered it. Then they asked a third question on abortion. I said, wait a minute. I said, you've had all the other Republican candidates up here. I said, why are you asking me - I mean - excuse me - have you asked any of the other candidates about abortion? Silence. And one of them said, no. I said, well, wait a minute. They all have the same positions I do. They all say they're pro-life. I said, but you asked not any of them one question, you've asked me three? I said, why are you asking me questions and not them? And the answer was, because we know you mean it. [cheers and applause]You want a fighter you can trust, then go with a fighter you trusted, who was there. On marriage - I hear a lot of people talk about marriage now. I said, four of the Republicans have said they're going to fight for marriage. But when I was in the United States Senate, I stepped out on the issue of marriage way before anybody else, even before they started to approve gay marriages in the courts. I criticized the Supreme Court. I said we needed to pass a federal marriage amendment. Republicans and Democrats alike said - called me all sorts of names. You're just trying to pick on these people. We don't need to deal with this. There's no issue here. There's no problem here. I said, we'll have gay marriage within 10 years. I said this 11 years ago and I was wrong. I missed by a year. [laughter]But we drafted an amendment to the Constitution and I forced a vote on the floor of the United States Senate. And let me tell you, in the rooms outside of the view of the public, I was getting beaten up. Why are you forcing us to vote on this thing? We're going to look like haters and bigots. So all these folks who come here, some of them today who stood here and talked about how they're for you, behind closed doors were kicking my - well, you know. [laughter] We forced that vote. And guess what? It's the only vote that's ever been taken. When I left, so did the effort to make marriage between one man and one woman in the Congress. You want someone who's going to fight for you? Look at their track record. Look what they fought for. Look what they lost over. And look how successful they are. [applause]You want someone you can trust, like you could trust Ronald Reagan in 1980 that when he came into office he was going to stand up against the evil of communism and defeat them? Then look at their record. The greatest threat to a country today overseas is a threat of radical Islamic terrorism. Ten years ago - you know, I have a lot of people come up here and say, we need to name the enemy. We need to go after who the enemy is. I encourage you to go back and look at a speech I gave 10 year ago at the National Press Club, in which I said: We need to identify the enemy and call them who they are. And I didn't just give speeches. Iran - we put nuclear sanctions on Iran 12 years ago. I authored that bill that put the nuclear sanctions on Iran. [cheers and applause]And for 12 years, I've been talking here in this country, on the floor of the Senate, across this country afterwards, talking about the threat of not just radical Islam but, in the case of Iran, what I call apocalyptic Islam - Islam that is about bringing about the end of the world, because that's what they believe. How many times does America have to pay the lesson of not listening to what despots say they want to do and not believing them? We have a regime in Iran that says they want to bring about the end of the world to bring about their return of their savior, called the Mahdi. And we just gave them the opportunity to have a nuclear weapon. That, ladies and gentlemen, is suicidal. And that, ladies and gentlemen, will not happen if you elect me president of the United States. [cheers and applause]Day one - day one - I know all these people say, oh, you can't tear this up and you can't do this. Let me tell you what you can do. When the president of the United States doesn't have the guts to bring a deal to the Congress for ratification it's his deal, not our deal, and it won't be our deal when I become president of the United States. [applause]I will tell the Iranians simply this - and they know I mean it. I wrote an op-ed last year about this negotiation, and the Iranian government responded to it. They know who I am. In April of this year, I was in ISIS Magazine. [laughter] It was the centerfold. [laughter] It was a nice picture, nicer than I usually get in most of the mainstream media around you; tells you how far gone they are. And next to it was a quote underneath the headline in the words of our enemies was my picture and my quote defining - describing who they were. I know who they are and they know who I am. No other presidential candidate has been in ISIS Magazine. [laughter, cheers, and applause]We can't risk any misperception. When the next president raises his hand, our enemies have to know who they're dealing with and our friends have to know who they're dealing with. I will stand with Israel. [cheers and applause] I will stand with our allies. [cheers and applause] And I will defeat radical Islam. [cheers and applause]Ladies and gentlemen, if we're going to win this election we have to take actually some of the words of what Pope Francis was talking about yesterday. He was talking about the poor, the workers, the people who are being left behind in society. All of the things he talks about is all focused on the idea that there's an unequal distribution. There's environmentalism that is - environmental waste that's hurting the poor.And here in America we see the middle of America hollowing out. I announced from a factory floor in western Pennsylvania. The reason I did was because I know who the Republican Party is. I know who the conservative movement is in this country. They're not Wall Street. They're not people who live in the big homes in the Hamptons. They don't vote for us anymore. Who votes for us are people who love this country, who want an opportunity to rise, who believe in faith and family and opportunity, and are looking for a party. They're looking for a movement who cares and talks about them.And ladies and gentlemen, let's just be honest. We haven't done a very good job of that. And as a result, if you look at the last election, millions of Americans who didn't want to vote for Barack Obama just stayed home in Pennsylvania and Ohio and Michigan and all the states where, if we want to win this presidency, we've got to. We've got to attract those votes.That's why I announced from a factory floor and said that I would pledge to make America the number one manufacturer in the world again. You want to solve global warming? Get all those jobs from China that pollute unlimitedly. Bring them back to America, where we have cleaner energy and clean things, and we will create jobs and reduce global climate. [cheers and applause]And another way that we need to put this framework of being strong for American workers is on immigration. When you think of the word immigration, most people, when you hear the word immigration, you think, oh, well, I think of that illegal person, and what are we going to do about them? Why? Because many Republicans and all Democrats have decided that's how we should frame this debate. The debate should be framed about what we're going to do about illegal immigrants in this country instead of what every other policy debate in America is framed around. You finish this sentence. Every policy we pass in America should be in the best interest of -AUDIENCE: America.MR. SANTORUM: There you go. But not immigration. Immigration is about the people who broke the law, not the people who are obeying the law. Why do we let them do this, ladies and gentlemen? Why do we even have our candidates up here let them do this? A majority of the people in this race, ladies and gentlemen, are not good on the issue of immigration. Oh, they'll talk about how tough they're going to be; secure the border. Look, let's just - let's just do a given. Everybody's for securing the border. But that's not it. That's a start. But as long as you continue to have the magnets here, the border is only part of your problem. And the magnet is, number one, the belief that there's going to be amnesty.Now, you have a lot of people get up here and talk about how tough they are. But they actually support amnesty. The speaker who was just here before me running for president, he'll tell you how tough he is. But when he was in the Senate - he's in the Senate - he offered an amendment to allow people to stay in this country indefinitely. Now, for me that's amnesty. [applause]We have to have a policy that says that we are going to make sure that everyone who broke the law in this country is, in an orderly fashion, returned to their country of origin and have to come in like everybody else in this country - legally. [applause]And for those who say it can't be done, half of the illegal immigrants in this country are here on visa overstays. We know who they are. We know where they are. All we have to do is what we aren't doing right now, which is tell them to go home and return to their country of origin. [applause]But it's not just illegal immigration. The place which is really harming the American worker - 90 percent, 70 to 90 percent of the workers who come to this country, both legally and illegally, are wage earners. That's why you see the angst in America about this issue of immigration. That's why it's caught on so much. Why? Because people realize that when you bring in 35 million people over the last 20 years, more than any other 20-year period in American history, and the vast majority of them are wage earners, fairly low-skilled, that it's going to have an impact on American wage earners.And that's why they're frustrated. And they don't see either political party talking about them. And it's not just illegal. It's both legal and illegal. We're bringing in more legal immigrants in this country than ever in the history of our country, over a million a year.There's only one candidate in this race who suggested that we eliminate a couple of worker - a couple of immigration categories and reduce the number of immigrations by 25 percent. Focus on making sure that we create a better opportunity for working men and women to get good-paying wages. Why? Because in the last 20-year period of time wages have gone up less than a nickel an hour per year.American workers know. American workers know that the policies of this country, the immigration policies, are hurting. And no one has talked about it yet. Almost every single person in this race is for more legal immigration. Some want to double it, including the senators who spoke here this morning. Some want to take some categories and increase them by 500 percent, like some of the senators who spoke here this morning.Ladies and gentlemen, there are big differences. You have to make a decision here, and it's a tough one. Who are you going to support? Who are you going to trust? Who has the right vision to be able to capture the voters that we need in order to win?And if you like the policies that I just laid out, then that's who you might want to vote for. But if you want policies that are going to go after working men and women in this country who want someone to stand for them against Wall Street, against the big employers who want cheaper labor in this country, then you've got one choice. And it's not a bad choice. It's a choice you can trust on the issues you care about at a time when we need strong leadership to put this country back on the right track.Thank you all very much, and God bless you. [cheers and applause] Thank you.
